---
ID: 4789
post_title: >
  On eve of defining British EU
  referendum, rivals race for final votes
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-06-22 16:47:10
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/on-eve-of-defining-british-eu-referendum-rivals-race-for-final-votes/
published: true
original_cats:
  - topNews
original_title:
  - >
    On eve of defining British EU
    referendum, rivals race for final votes
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/0DfDkqYJHLs/us-britain-eu-idUSKCN0Z80SN
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/0DfDkqYJHLs/us-britain-eu-idUSKCN0Z80SN
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="4"><p><span class="articleLocation">LONDON</span> British Prime Minister David Cameron and his euroskeptic opponents made final pitches for wavering voters on Wednesday on the eve of a defining referendum on European Union membership with the outcome still too close to call.</p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>The vote, which echoes the rise of populism elsewhere in Europe and the United States, will shape the future of Europe. A victory for "out" could unleash turmoil on financial markets.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>"It's very close; nobody knows what's going to happen," Cameron told Wednesday's Financial Times, with opinion polls showing the rival camps neck and neck. The Leave camp was on 45 percent, just one point ahead of Remain, with 9 percent undecided, in the last poll published by Opinium, which called it a "statistical tie".  </p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>European Commission chief Jean-Claude Juncker warned there would be no further renegotiation whatever the result on Thursday, after EU leaders reached a deal on a new settlement for Britain in February. </p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>French President Francois Hollande said a vote to leave would be irreversible and could seriously jeopardize British access to the EU's prized single market. German Chancellor Angela Merkel said she did not want to speculate on what dangers would arise if Britain left, because she wanted it to say in the Union. </p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>The referendum will take place a week after the murder of ardently pro-EU lawmaker Jo Cox shocked the country, raising questions about the tone of an increasingly bitter four-month campaign.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>Much of the heated debate has boiled down to two issues: the economy and immigration.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>The City of London financial center, the International Monetary Fund and the majority of British business leaders back Cameron and his Remain camp's stance that to leave the EU would plunge Britain into recession, costing jobs and raising prices.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Supporters of a so-called Brexit have struck a chord with many voters by saying Britain would regain control of immigration if it cut itself loose from a bloc they see as domineering and out of touch.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>In what has become an ugly and personal fight, both camps have been accused of using unfounded assertions and scare tactics. Remain campaigners accuse their opponents of resorting to the politics of hate; the Leave camp say their rivals have run a "project fear" to scare voters about the economic risks.   </p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>Both sides hit the road and the airwaves to appeal to the large number of undecided voters who will be decisive, along with the level of turnout.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>"INDEPENDENCE DAY"</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>"It's our last chance to sort this out and take back control," said former London mayor Boris Johnson, the main leader of the Leave campaign and favorite with bookmakers to replace Cameron in the event of Brexit.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>"If we don't vote to leave tomorrow we will remain locked in the back of the car, driven in an uncertain direction frankly to a place we don't want to go and perhaps by a driver who doesn't speak the very best of English," he said.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>He was flying around Britain in a helicopter to spread the Brexit message, making an unashamed play to British patriotism by declaring Thursday could be "independence day".</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>The leader of the anti-EU UK Independence Party (UKIP), Nigel Farage, also played the nationalist card in an address to supporters in London.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>"At the end of the day tomorrow when people vote they must make a decision - which flag is theirs? I want us to live under British passports and under the British flag," he said. </p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>Cameron, who called the referendum under pressure from his own Conservative party and from the insurgent UKIP, urged voters to remain in the club Britain joined in 1973. </p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>"If we leave, we will diminish our country and our ability to get things done in the world," he told a crowd in Bristol in western England.  </p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>Standing alongside him, former Prime Minister John Major said the result would have to be respected but warned that if Leave won, "the gravediggers of our prosperity will have to account for what they have said and done".</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Opinion polls have depicted a deeply divided nation, with big differences between older and younger voters, and between pro-EU London and Scotland and euroskeptic Middle England. Some polls published since Cox's murder have suggested a swing towards Remain, though often within the margin of error.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>Election experts say turnout will be crucial because of a gulf between generations. Young people, who have a poor voting record, strongly back staying in the EU, while elderly, more regular voters tend to favor an exit.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>Opposition Labour Party supporters are seen as being more pro-EU than Conservatives, but less passionate about the issue.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn, who voted "No" in a previous 1975 referendum on staying in the European Economic Community, and who has been criticized for lukewarm backing for the Remain cause, attempted to galvanize his party on Wednesday.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>"Vote for jobs, vote for rights at work, vote for our NHS (National Health Service), vote to remain in the European Union," he told a rally in London.   </p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>The implied probability of a Remain vote was at 75 percent, according to Betfair odds, and the FTSE 100 share index was up 1.2 percent as investors grew more optimistic Britain would back staying in the EU.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>However, the pound <a href="http://www.reuters.com/finance/currencies/quote?srcCurr=GBP&amp;destCurr=USD">GBP=D4</a> fell to $1.4665 from an earlier high of $1.4708 after the Opinium poll.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>Bond trading giant PIMCO's head of sterling portfolios said the pound could fall to $1.30, its lowest level against the dollar in 30 years, if Britons vote for Brexit.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>It was not just markets showing concern. Foreign exchange bureau companies said there had been a surge in demand for euros and dollars in local branches and online this week.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>Polling stations open at 0600 GMT (0200 EDT)on Thursday June 23 and close at 2100 GMT (1700 EDT) with 46.5 million electors eligible to vote. The official result is due some time after 0600 GMT on Friday but partial results and turnout figures from 382 counting centers will be announced from about 0100 GMT.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>World leaders including U.S. President Barack Obama, Chinese President Xi Jinping and NATO and Commonwealth allies have urged Britain to remain in the EU.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>BREXIT?</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>Cameron's personal future also hangs on the result. The EU issue has divided his Conservative Party since the days of his distant predecessor Margaret Thatcher, bringing an end to her decade in office in 1990.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>A vote to leave would almost certainly cost him the top job, though he has said he will stay. But even narrow backing for remain could undermine his authority and shorten his term.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>A Brexit vote could unleash turmoil on foreign exchange, equity and bond markets, lead to a political crisis in Britain and fragment the post-Cold War European order. </p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>EU leaders, while unanimously urging Britain to stay, are already skirmishing over whether the right response to a Brexit would be closer integration of the remaining members or a rethink of the way Europe is governed.  </p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>The EU would have to weather the exit of its No.2 economy representing $2.9 trillion of its gross domestic product, the only European financial capital to rival New York and one of its only two nuclear powers, while Britain's economy could stall.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>Scotland's First Minister has said Brexit could also trigger another independence referendum if Scots backed staying the EU but were dragged out by the English.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>The bosses of 51 of the FTSE 100 British companies, and 1,285 business leaders who together employ 1.75 million people, signed a joint letter to The Times urging voters to remain.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>A vote to remain would trigger a rise in sterling and relief in Western capitals, unleash pent-up investment in Britain but still leave the country -- and the Conservatives -- bitterly divided, especially if the margin of victory were thin.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>Investment bank Citi estimated in a research note there was a 60 percent chance Britons would vote to stay in the EU but said a "close remain" could still undermine political stability in both the United Kingdom and the 28-country bloc.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>Bookmaker William Hill said about 20 million pounds had been staked on the outcome of the referendum across the betting industry, two-thirds of it on a vote to remain in the EU.     </p><span id="midArticle_12"/><span id="midArticle_13"/><p> (Additional reporting by Kylie MacLellan, Andy Bruce and Kate Holton; Writing by Guy Faulconbridge, Editing by Paul Taylor and Timothy Heritage)</p><span id="midArticle_14"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/0DfDkqYJHLs/us-britain-eu-idUSKCN0Z80SN">Source </a>