---
ID: 854
post_title: 'New Hampshire primary: Most polls close after a day of intense campaigning &#8211; Washington Post'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-02-10 00:32:37
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/new-hampshire-primary-most-polls-close-after-a-day-of-intense-campaigning-washington-post/
published: true
original_cats:
  - Top Stories
original_title:
  - 'New Hampshire primary: Most polls close after a day of intense campaigning - Washington Post'
original_link:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNF9zURnlN5Y_fDKnbupn9MMXgcT8g&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779043637906&#038;ei=I4W6VpGmN8bXhAHP_4P4CA&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/voting-begins-in-nh-as-presidential-hopefuls-make-a-final-sprint/2016/02/08/d56162d6-cecf-11e5-88cd-753e80cd29ad_story.html'
canonical_url:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNF9zURnlN5Y_fDKnbupn9MMXgcT8g&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779043637906&#038;ei=I4W6VpGmN8bXhAHP_4P4CA&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/voting-begins-in-nh-as-presidential-hopefuls-make-a-final-sprint/2016/02/08/d56162d6-cecf-11e5-88cd-753e80cd29ad_story.html'
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id=""><p> <span class="dateline">MANCHESTER, N.H. —</span> Most polls have closed in New Hampshire, after a day of voting in this state’s crucial presidential primaries — and after more than a year of campaigning, which ended with a pair of outsider candidates holding big leads in both parties.</p> <p>The final polls in the state will not close until 8 p.m. Eastern.</p> <p>Entering the day, the Democratic race was led by Sen. Bernie Sanders (Vt.), a “democratic socialist” who was little known outside of Vermont and Washington a year ago. One stunning figure from the Democratic race: news outlets reported that, among New Hampshire Democrats who told exit pollsters that they wanted a candidate who was “honest and trustworthy,” Sanders won by a margin of 93 percent to 5 percent.</p> <p>In the Republican race, New Hampshire’s front-runner was an even more unlikely candidate: New York businessman Donald Trump, who has run on a mix of hard-right immigration ideas and unspecific promises to “make America great again” by putting his deal-making skills to work both in foreign affairs and in Washington.</p> <p channel="wp.com" class="interstitial-link"> <i>[<a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/2016-election-results/new-hampshire/?refresh">New Hampshire primary election results</a>]</i> </p> <p>In both parties, those front-runners are so far ahead that a loss would be a significant upset.</p> <p>Instead, the night’s biggest surprises may be how far back the second-place candidates are — and, on the Republican side, the order in which Trump’s challengers finish. A second-place finish, or even a third-place showing, could be a valuable boost to one of the candidates trying to consolidate the anti-Trump vote. A fifth- or sixth-place showing could be a fatal blow.</p> <p>While Trump limited his campaigning Tuesday morning to doing the rounds of a couple of TV shows, several of his rivals hit the streets to greet voters in a state in which residents often make up their minds at the last minute. Within the space of 2 <fraction> <sup>1</sup>/<sub>2 </sub></fraction>hours, three Republican hopefuls — Sen. Marco Rubio (Fla.), New Jersey Gov. Chris Christie and former Florida governor Jeb Bush — all stopped by Manchester’s Webster School to chat with voters as they arrived.</p> <p channel="wp.com" class="interstitial-link"> <i>[<a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics-live/liveblog/new-hampshire-primary-live-blog-the-granite-state-votes/?hpid=hp_hp-top-table-main_liveblogpromo%3Aliveblog%2Fpromo">New Hampshire primary live coverage: The Granite State votes</a>]</i> </p> <p>In the Democratic race, polls showed Sanders maintaining his double-digit lead over former secretary of state Hillary Clinton. After winning only narrowly in Iowa, Clinton braced for defeat while hoping to keep the damage from spilling over into upcoming states where she long has been dominant.</p> <p>Following tradition, the voting got underway at midnight in some hamlets to kick off the <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/2016-election-results/new-hampshire/" title="www.washingtonpost.com">first-in-the-nation primary</a>. The towns delivered mixed verdicts. In tiny Dixville Notch, whose residents have been voting at midnight since 1960, all four Democratic votes went to Sanders. On the Republican side, Ohio Gov. John Kasich received three, and Trump had two.</p> <p>Presidential candidates have often viewed Dixville Notch as a harbinger for the state’s overall results, even if its voters are not always prescient. But it had company this year. In Millsfield, roughly an hour south of the Canadian border, residents revived midnight voting. Clinton beat Sanders with two votes to one, while Sen. Ted Cruz (R-Tex.) got nine votes, Trump took three, and a few other Republicans got one vote each.</p><div class="inline-content inline-video" readability="34">  <p> <span class="pb-caption">Voting began in New Hampshire this morning for the state's primary. A crowded field and an aggressive campaign has many relieved the circus is coming to an end as candidates wait in anticipation for results. (Dalton Bennett/The Washington Post)</span> </p> </div> <p>In an interview on ABC’s “Good Morning America,” Kasich said he took the Dixville Notch contest so seriously that he called every voter in town. “Hey, you know, we came out strong,” he told host George Stephanopoulos.</p> <p channel="wp.com" class="interstitial-link"> <i>[<a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2016/02/09/360-video-heres-what-its-like-in-new-hampshire-ahead-of-the-primaries/">Watch: See how intimate campaigning is in New Hampshire </a>]</i> </p> <p>Kasich added that he had already “sent my bus — my magic bus — down to South Carolina” to get a jump on the next presidential contest.</p> <p>Rubio, who is struggling to reclaim momentum after <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/debate-seems-to-halt-momentum-of-rubio-bot/2016/02/07/58d99156-cdbd-11e5-88cd-753e80cd29ad_story.html" title="www.washingtonpost.com">stumbling in the last debate</a>, portrayed the growing attacks from rivals as a sign of his campaign’s strength.</p> <p>“It’s great to be targeted, because it means you’re doing something right,” he told ABC’s Stephanopoulos.</p> <p>Around 7:45 a.m. Rubio arrived at the Webster School, where voting was well underway. Amid competing shouts of “Marco!” “Trump!” and “Ro-bot!” (a reference to Rubio’s speaking style), the senator greeted supporters, telling some: “I’ll see you guys again in November.”</p> <p>Rubio’s mentor-turned-adversary, Bush, arrived at the school about two hours after Rubio had left, still hoping to sway some voters before polls close starting at 7 p.m.</p> <p>“The great thing about being in New Hampshire is that you can basically change the course of the race by who you think is capable of being president,” Bush told a woman who said she was still undecided.</p> <p>The polling station also held its share of Sanders voters, several of whom yelled “Feel the Bern!” on their way in or out of the school.</p> <p channel="wp.com" class="interstitial-link"> <i>[<a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2016/02/09/bernie-sanders-losing-new-hampshire-would-be-a-surprise-donald-trump-losing-would-be-a-shock/" title="www.washingtonpost.com">Sanders losing N.H. would be a surprise. Trump losing would be a shock.</a>]</i> </p> <p>Sanders is capitalizing in part on the fact that he represents a neighboring state, Vermont, although his campaign has been fueled more by widespread discontent with the political system among many liberals and the enthusiasm of young voters.</p> <p>In diners, on factory floors and at big rallies, the candidates encountered voters, one after another, who had yet to make up their minds — a reminder that New Hampshire is a state where voters have sprung surprises in the closing days of past presidential primaries.</p> <p>Despite the fact that neither contest this year appears to have a genuine race for first place, the net effect of the voting could be to draw out both nomination battles well into the spring. A commanding win by Sanders that further exposes weaknesses in Clinton’s coalition, along with a photo finish for second and third place in the Republican race, could upend both contests.</p> <p>For Republicans, the campaign trail in the final push was like a game of political billiards — with attacks flying fast and in all directions, reflecting the jumbled field and the uncertain fates that await so many of the candidates.</p> <p>Bush fired at Trump, Cruz, Kasich and Rubio. Christie savaged Rubio. Rubio smacked back. Trump, for his part, slammed Bush and Cruz.</p> <p>In Washington on Tuesday, Sen. John McCain (R-Ariz.), who won New Hampshire’s GOP primary in both 2000 and 2008, blasted Trump and Cruz on the Senate floor as being too quick to endorse the use of torture while campaigning for their party’s nod.</p> <p>“It might be easy to dismiss this bluster as cheap campaign rhetoric,” McCain said, “but these statements must not go unanswered because they mislead the American people about the realities of interrogation, how to gather intelligence, what it takes to defend our security and, at the most fundamental level, what we are fighting for as a nation and what kind of nation we are.”</p> <p>Two of New Hampshire’s former GOP governors, John H. Sununu and Judd Gregg, said the most important outcomes may be the size of Trump’s expected victory and how the other candidates place.</p> <p>If Trump does not win big, it will be written off as meaningless, said Sununu, who has not endorsed a candidate.</p> <p>Meanwhile, much is at stake for the “establishment” contenders. A good showing could change a campaign from being deemed lifeless to “becoming competitive,” Gregg told reporters at a breakfast in Manchester hosted by Bloomberg Politics.</p> <p>Gregg predicted the most likely beneficiaries of such a boost could be Kasich or Bush, whom Gregg has endorsed.</p> <p>In a Tuesday morning appearance on MSNBC’s “Morning Joe,” Trump pointed out that he attracted thousands of people to a rally the night before despite a nasty snowstorm. “I feel good. I feel good,” he said.</p> <p channel="wp.com" class="interstitial-link"> <i>[<a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2016/02/09/a-last-ditch-retail-effort-in-new-hampshire-and-how-hillary-clinton-became-a-selfie-queen/">How, in her White House quest, Clinton became a selfie queen</a> <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/the-fix/wp/2016/02/02/the-lessons-of-iowa-from-3-people-who-know/"/>]</i> </p> <p>The Democratic side was hardly harmonious, as Clinton and Sanders have exchanged barbs over who is most indebted to Wall Street. Sanders’s campaign has pushed back against Clinton’s charge this week that he has taken “about $200,000” from Wall Street firms through the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee.</p> <p>Supporters of the senator chanted “Feel the Bern!” around him as he visited a polling place in Concord Tuesday afternoon. The senator and his entourage, which includes Secret Service protection he picked up last week, proceeded to walk around a city block on the streets with a crush of reporters following him, snarling traffic.</p> <p>Sanders, waving occasionally, eventually returned to the supporters waiting outside the polling place. They picked back up with cheers of “Bernie! Bernie! Bernie!” before Sanders climbed into a waiting SUV.</p> <p>In a sign of how Sanders is already looking ahead to South Carolina, an aide confirmed he will be having breakfast in Harlem Wednesday with the Rev. Al Sharpton, an influential voice in the African American community.</p> <p>Much earlier in the day, Clinton and her daughter Chelsea arrived at a polling location at Parker Varney School in Manchester to greet supporters and voters.</p> <p>“This is a great process, and as I’ve said over the past couple days we’re going to keep working literally until the last vote is cast and counted, and we’re going to go from there,” Clinton said. </p> <p channel="wp.com" class="interstitial-link"> <i>[<a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/debate-seems-to-halt-momentum-of-rubio-bot/2016/02/07/58d99156-cdbd-11e5-88cd-753e80cd29ad_story.html">Rubio’s sound bites turn into stumbling blocks</a>]</i> </p> <p>For the Republicans, the character of the race appeared to change over the weekend after a debate in which Rubio faltered in the face of stinging barbs from Christie.</p> <p>Cruz, who spent the end of his Iowa campaign in a rhetorical splatter-fight with Trump, closed out his New Hampshire tour with only sparing mention of his rivals. But speaking to reporters Tuesday outside the Red Arrow Diner in Manchester, Cruz responded to the fact Trump had called him a “pussy” the day before.</p> <p>“There is a reason Donald Trump engages in profane insults,” Cruz said, “because he can’t defend his own record.”</p> <p>Trump said during two separate television appearances he just “having fun” by making the crude reference. “It was like a retweet,” he said on Fox News Channel’s “Fox and Friends.”</p> <p>And even before the polls closed, at least one long-shot Republican contender made it clear he was not dropping out: retired pediatric neurosurgeon Ben Carson’s campaign issued a statement saying after New Hampshire “will be en route to South Carolina to continue his campaign for faith, integrity and common sense leadership,” </p> <p class="trailleft">Eilperin reported from Washington. Jose A. DelReal in Portsmouth, Jenna Johnson, Sean Sullivan and John Wagner in Concord, Michael Kranish in Plaistow, Abby Phillip, Anne Gearan, Ed O’Keefe and Karen Tumulty in Manchester contributed to this report.</p>  </div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNF9zURnlN5Y_fDKnbupn9MMXgcT8g&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779043637906&#038;ei=I4W6VpGmN8bXhAHP_4P4CA&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/voting-begins-in-nh-as-presidential-hopefuls-make-a-final-sprint/2016/02/08/d56162d6-cecf-11e5-88cd-753e80cd29ad_story.html">Source </a>