---
ID: 664
post_title: >
  First U.S. Zika virus transmission
  reported, attributed to sex
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-02-03 06:17:16
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/first-u-s-zika-virus-transmission-reported-attributed-to-sex/
published: true
original_cats:
  - domesticNews
original_title:
  - >
    First U.S. Zika virus transmission
    reported, attributed to sex
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/Reuters/domesticNews/~3/8TGc_aj6a-A/story01.htm
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/Reuters/domesticNews/~3/8TGc_aj6a-A/story01.htm
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="8"><p><span class="articleLocation">AUSTIN, Texas</span> The first known case of Zika virus transmission in the United States was reported in Texas on Tuesday by local health officials, who said it likely was contracted through sex and not a mosquito bite, a day after the World Health Organization declared an international public health emergency.</p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>The virus, linked to severe birth defects in thousands of babies in Brazil, is spreading rapidly in the Americas, and WHO officials on Tuesday expressed concern that it could hit Africa and Asia as well. Zika had been thought to be spread by the bite of mosquitoes of the Aedes genus, so sexual contact as a mode of transmission would be a potentially alarming development.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>The U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention confirmed it was the first U.S. Zika case in someone who had not traveled abroad in the current outbreak, said CDC Director Dr. Tom Frieden on Twitter.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>However, the CDC has not investigated how the virus was transmitted.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>After this case, the CDC advised men to consider using condoms after traveling to areas with the Zika virus. Pregnant women should avoid contact with semen from men exposed to the virus.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>The Dallas County Department of health said on Twitter that the person was infected through sexual contact with someone who had traveled to Venezuela. The person infected did not travel to the South American country, county health officials said.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>The Texas Department of State Health Services was slightly more cautious in its assessment, saying in a statement, "Case details are being evaluated, but the possibility of sexual transmission from an infected person to a non-infected person is likely in this case."</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>County authorities said there were no reports of the virus being transmitted by mosquitoes in the Texas county.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Previously, international health officials had noted one U.S. case of possible person-to-person sexual transmission. But the Pan American Health Organization said more evidence was needed to confirm sexual contact as a means of Zika transmission. The medical literature also has one case in which the virus was detected in semen.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>The virus has been reported in more than 30 countries and linked to microcephaly, in which babies have abnormally small heads and improperly developed brains.    </p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>The American Red Cross on Tuesday asked blood donors who have traveled to Zika virus outbreak areas such as Mexico, the Caribbean, or Central or South America to wait at least 28 days before donating. However, the risk of transmitting the virus through blood donations remained "extremely" low in the continental United States, the disaster relief agency said.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>The Dow Jones transportation average ended 2.9 percent lower following news of the first U.S. transmission of the Zika virus.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>MONITORING NEEDED</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>The WHO has said the virus could infect 4 million people in the Americas. It said on Tuesday it launched a global response unit to fight the mosquito-borne virus.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>"Most important, we need to set up surveillance sites in low- and middle-income countries so that we can detect any change in the reporting patterns of microcephaly at an early stage," Dr. Anthony Costello said in Geneva. Costello is WHO's director for maternal, child and adolescent health.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>Twenty to 30 sites could be established worldwide, mainly in poor countries without robust healthcare systems, Costello said.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>Brazil is the country hardest hit by Zika. In an address to a joint session of Brazil's Congress, President Dilma Rousseff said her government will spare no resources in mobilizing to combat the mosquito that transmits the virus. With no vaccine or treatment for Zika, efforts to curb its spread have focused on eradicating mosquito breeding sites.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>Brazil, which has more than 4,000 suspected cases of microcephaly that may be linked to Zika, is scheduled to host the Olympics in Rio de Janeiro in August.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>Rousseff also said Brazil and the United States will enter a partnership to develop a Zika vaccine as soon as possible to stem the spread of the virus.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>VACCINE EFFORTS</p><span id="midArticle_6"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>French drugmaker Sanofi SA on Tuesday announced that it has launched a project to develop a vaccine against the virus, the most decisive commitment yet by a major vaccine maker. The company said its Sanofi Pasteur vaccines division would use its expertise in developing vaccines for similar viruses such as yellow fever, Japanese encephalitis and dengue.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>Other companies also joined the race on Tuesday to develop a vaccine. The University of South Australia said it was working on a Zika vaccine with Australian biotech Sementis Ltd.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>U.S. drug developer NewLink Genetics Corp said it has started a project to develop Zika treatment options.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>Experts have said a Zika vaccine for widespread use is months if not years away.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>Costello said the Aedes mosquitoes that carry the Zika virus "are present ... through Africa, parts of southern Europe and many parts of Asia, particularly South Asia." Africa and Asia have the world's highest birth rates.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>WHO Director-General Margaret Chan said on Monday it was "strongly suspected but not yet scientifically proven" that Zika causes microcephaly.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>The first Irish cases of Zika virus have been detected in two people with a history of traveling to a country affected by the mosquito-borne infection, the Health Service Executive of Ireland said.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>Chilean health officials said they have confirmed three cases in Chile of people infected with the Zika virus, all of whom were infected while traveling elsewhere in Latin America.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>An Australian state health service said two Australians were diagnosed with the virus after returning from the Caribbean, confirming the first cases of the virus in the country this year.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/><span id="midArticle_16"/><p> (Additional reporting by Dominique Vidalon in Paris, <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=stephanienebehay&amp;">Stephanie Nebehay</a> in Geneva, Shadia Nasralla in Vienna, <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=ben.hirschler&amp;">Ben Hirschler</a> in London, <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=anthony.boadle&amp;">Anthony Boadle</a> in Brasilia, Jane Wardell in Sydney, Amy Sawitta Lefevre in Bangkok, Pedro Fonseca in Rio, <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=rosalba.obrien&amp;">Rosalba O'Brien</a> in Santiago, <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=padraic.halpin&amp;">Padraic Halpin</a> in Dublin, Ankur Banerjee and Amrutha Penumudi in Bengaluru; Writing by <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=will.dunham&amp;">Will Dunham</a> and <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=lisa.shumaker&amp;">Lisa Shumaker</a>; Editing by <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=toni.reinhold&amp;">Toni Reinhold</a>, <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=jonathan.oatis&amp;">Jonathan Oatis</a>, Andrew Hay and <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=bernard.orr&amp;">Bernard Orr</a>)</p><span id="midArticle_17"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/Reuters/domesticNews/~3/8TGc_aj6a-A/story01.htm">Source </a>