---
ID: 3876
post_title: >
  To halt smartphone slide, Samsung
  rewrites playbook
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-05-23 02:42:35
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/to-halt-smartphone-slide-samsung-rewrites-playbook/
published: true
original_cats:
  - technologyNews
original_title:
  - >
    To halt smartphone slide, Samsung
    rewrites playbook
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/technologyNews/~3/o7xlZiog6mI/us-samsung-elec-smartphones-idUSKCN0YD0XM
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/technologyNews/~3/o7xlZiog6mI/us-samsung-elec-smartphones-idUSKCN0YD0XM
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="5"><p><span class="articleLocation">SEOUL</span> From the way it chooses smartphone components to the models it brings to market, Samsung Electronics (<span id="symbol_005930.KS_0">005930.KS</span>) has undergone a painful process of breaking from its past to reverse a slide in its handset business.</p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>For example, the world's largest smartphone maker agonized over camera specs for its flagship Galaxy S7 until the last moment - ultimately defying industry convention by opting for fewer pixels in exchange for improved autofocus features and low-light performance, a move that contributed to early success.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>It also pared back its product line-up, overcoming internal resistance, enabling it to streamline production, an executive said.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>The handset business has now stabilized, and had its best profit in nearly two years in January-March, though historically low smartphone industry growth still leaves Samsung looking for the "next big thing".</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>"We've now gotten to a point where we can secure a baseline profit even if the market stagnates, so long as we don't make a bad mistake," said Kim Gae-youn, vice president in charge of Samsung's smartphone product planning. "I'm confident we can hold our ground."</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>After peaking in 2013, a sharp drop in mobile profits exposed Samsung as slow to adjust to the changing market: its budget devices were overpriced and unappealing versus Chinese offerings, and the 2014 version of its Galaxy S flopped.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>That prompted a cull among executives and stoked investor worries Samsung might not be able to recover as rivals including Apple (<span id="symbol_AAPL.O_1">AAPL.O</span>) and China's Huawei Technologies [HWT.UL] and Xiaomi [XTC.UL] gained market share at its expense.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>There was no sweeping, across-the-board fix. Rather, Samsung embarked two years ago on an overhaul that included a shift from a phone-for-all-needs approach towards a line-up that emphasized economies of scale.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>It revamped design, using metal frames and curved screens, and gave high-end features such as organic light-emitting diode (OLED) screens to its low- and mid-tier products.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>CAMERA CONUNDRUM</p><span id="midArticle_11"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>As Samsung prepared to launch its Galaxy S7 phones this year, executives went back and forth over whether to use a 12-megapixel rear camera that shoots better in the dark and has improved auto focus, or stay with a 16-megapixel count. At the last moment, they opted for 12-megapixels - a rare step down in an industry fixated on higher numbers.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>This meant a change in approach for a company known to tout the highest specs for its flagship products, and executives required convincing, Kim said. They were swayed by data showing consumers want more than just a high pixel count.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>"In the past, based on our past decision-making process, we never would have gone back," Kim said in an interview at Samsung's headquarters campus in Suwon, south of Seoul.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>The move worked. More than half of U.S. S7 buyers surveyed cited camera quality as a key selling point, compared with a third of all smartphone buyers in the first quarter, according to Kantar US Insights.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>The same mindset shift gave Samsung confidence to release a Galaxy 7 series that looks similar to its predecessor. This incremental upgrade drew initial scepticism, but the S7 phones have beaten expectations and could set a new first-year sales record for the South Korean firm.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>Samsung must still convince investors its recent improvement is sustainable, and that innovative products are in the works to grow revenue. Some attribute its rebound partly to Apple's weaker performance, and cost-cutting.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>"I think they will try to imbue the Note (tablet) with a more transformative change such as new technology under the new leadership, than the fine-tuning we saw with the Galaxy S7," said Kim Hyun-su, a fund manager with IBK Investment &amp; Securities, which holds Samsung shares.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>Long-time mobile chief J.K. Shin ceded day-to-day management in December when Dongjin Koh became president of the handset unit in the biggest leadership change to date under the conglomerate's heir-apparent Jay Y. Lee.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>Samsung's operating profit is expected to be flat this year and grow just 3 percent next year, according to 43 analysts polled by Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>LESS IS MORE</p><span id="midArticle_6"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>Slimming down its product portfolio was another departure from the past, when Samsung launched variations to soak up as much demand as possible. As market growth stalled, that approach was no longer cost effective.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>It phased out unpopular models and created common platforms, with more phones using the same parts. Researcher Counterpoint says Samsung has shed close to a third of its product portfolio.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>That move also had to overcome internal resistance.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>"If you're in the trenches, you want to have a machine gun, a grenade, a mine on hand," Kim said. "There are also different needs depending on individual markets, so regional sales staff naturally can't be happy when the company moves to rationalize and restructure from a global structure. The transition process is painful."</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>The product cull paid off; the revamped models helped Samsung recover in big markets such as India. "There was a feeling the sheer number of phones in the market was confusing for customers," said a Samsung India executive, declining to be identified as he was not authorized to speak with the media.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>Despite a solid first quarter, analysts remain cautious about Samsung's outlook, with researcher Gartner predicting global smartphone sales growth will slow to 7 percent this year.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>Samsung has also yet to recover in China, the world's top smartphone market, where it ranks sixth with 7 percent market share, according to Strategy Analytics, well behind local rivals such as Huawei, Xiaomi and OPPO.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>Samsung's Kim says his focus now is on premium-end smartphones - those costing $600 and above - where not all industry players have the muscle to compete.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>"There's still room for growth in the market," he said. "This segment wants innovation, which has turned it into an area that requires huge capital equipment investments."</p><span id="midArticle_15"/><span id="midArticle_16"/><p> (Reporting by Se Young Lee, with additional reporting by Nataly Pak and Joyce Lee in SEOUL and Himank Sharma in MUMBAI; Editing by Tony Munroe and Ian Geoghegan)</p><span id="midArticle_17"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/technologyNews/~3/o7xlZiog6mI/us-samsung-elec-smartphones-idUSKCN0YD0XM">Source </a>