---
ID: 867
post_title: >
  Scant hope of Syria peace breakthrough
  as Russia pounds rebels
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-02-10 12:09:52
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/scant-hope-of-syria-peace-breakthrough-as-russia-pounds-rebels/
published: true
original_cats:
  - topNews
original_title:
  - >
    Scant hope of Syria peace breakthrough
    as Russia pounds rebels
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/3upyTeuembI/story01.htm
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/3upyTeuembI/story01.htm
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="6"><p><span class="articleLocation">PARIS/UNITED NATIONS</span> Major powers meeting in Germany on Thursday aim to revive Syria peace efforts, but with Russia backing a government push for a military victory, opposition delegates and Western officials see little hope of a diplomatic breakthrough.</p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>United Nations Special Envoy Staffan de Mistura halted the first attempt to negotiate an end to Syria's war in two years after an unprecedented offensive by forces loyal to Syrian President Bashar al-Assad against Western-backed rebels supported by Russian air strikes.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>In an attempt to prevent a collapse of diplomatic efforts to end Syria's five-year-old civil war, U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry is pushing for a ceasefire and increased humanitarian aid access ahead of a meeting of the so-called International Syria Support Group (ISSG) in Munich this week.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>But one U.N. diplomatic source said Russia was "stringing Kerry along" in order to provide diplomatic cover for Moscow's real goal - to help Assad win on the battlefield instead of compromising at the negotiating table.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>    "It's clear to everyone now that Russia really doesn't want a negotiated solution but for Assad to win," said the diplomatic source, speaking on condition of anonymity.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>A senior adviser to Assad, Bouthaina Shaaban, told Reuters in Damascus on Tuesday that there would be no let-up in the army advance, which aimed to recapture the city of Aleppo from rebels and secure Syria's border with Turkey.   </p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>    </p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>TARGET DATE</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>De Mistura set a target date of Feb. 25 to reconvene talks between the Syrian government and opposition in Geneva.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>    But in less than two weeks, the offensive by Syrian forces, Hezbollah and Shiite militias directed by Iran - all backed by Russian bombing raids - have reversed opposition gains on the ground and encircled rebels inside Aleppo, a strategic prize now divided between government and opposition control.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>This has caused alarm among U.N. and Western officials, who believe the goal of the Russian-Syrian-Iranian campaign is to destroy the opposition's negotiating power in Geneva, kill them on the ground, and secure the first major military victory since Moscow began bombing opposition forces in Syria in September.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>"It'll be easy to get a ceasefire soon because the opposition will all be dead," a Western diplomat told Reuters. "That's a very effective ceasefire."</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>The latest fighting around Aleppo has killed about 500 people on all sides, a monitoring group said.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>Rebel groups say that while Washington put pressure on them to attend peace talks, there is less commitment to helping them on the battlefield. Appeals for anti-aircraft missiles to counter the latest offensive are falling on deaf ears.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>Other Western officials said Kerry overestimated his influence and ability to bring the Russians around. They said he appeared to believe that since he achieved what some saw as unachievable by getting a nuclear deal with Iran he could do the same with Syria.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>They noted that the two cases were different. With Iran, Russia wanted a political agreement whereas in Syria it is pushing for a military victory by the Syrian government.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>"The Russians are playing cat and mouse with Kerry," said a senior European diplomat. </p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>While it will not be difficult to get Russia to agree on an increase in aid deliveries, Western officials said, Moscow is clearly not committed to a comprehensive ceasefire that would halt what it seems as military momentum that favors the Syrian army and its Iranian-backed supporters.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>    </p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>FALSE ASSUMPTIONS</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>"U.S. policy was always based on a series of false assumptions. The main false assumption was that there is no military solution to the Syria crisis," said Christopher Harmer, an analyst with the Institute for the Study of War.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>"The Assad regime has no interest in a political solution," he said. "The Russians have no interest in a political solution. Iran has no interest in a political solution. Hezbollah has no interest in a political solution."</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>Russia says its air strikes have been targeting Islamic State, a militant Islamist group that has seized large parts of Syria and Iraq, and not Western-backed opposition groups. But U.S. and European officials say that is not the case. </p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>Fewer than 30 percent of Russia's air strikes are targeting Islamic State, a group that a U.S.-led coalition conducts bombing sorties against on a daily basis, Western officials say.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>From the beginning, ISSG, which includes the United States and Russia, as well as key regional powers such as rivals Saudi Arabia and Iran and European nations, has been struggling to find common ground within its disparate ranks on ending the Syrian war.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>After agreeing in November a road map for a ceasefire, U.N.-brokered talks between the government and opposition, and eventual elections, the ISSG has been unable to move ahead with peace talks. Some officials predict that the talks, like the opposition, could die a slow death in the coming months.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>BICKERING BEHIND CLOSED DOORS</p><span id="midArticle_12"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>A December meeting of the group was largely characterized by closed-door bickering about which groups in Syria should or should not be labeled a terrorist organization, which would bar them from the negotiating table.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>Jordan had been assigned the task of drawing up the list and collected proposals from members of the group. Iranian Foreign Minister Mohammad Javad Zarif was infuriated when he saw that someone had proposed putting the Revolutionary Guard Corps' Quds Force, which is actively supporting Assad, on the list of terrorist groups.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>"Zarif suggested that Iran might propose including the CIA as well," a Western diplomat said. After that, Kerry and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov, who were chairing the meeting, briefly discussed the idea of having the CIA included.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Qatar have not hidden their view that there is little holding international negotiations when the Russian air strikes and Syrian government advance continue.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>On the other side, Iran has made clear that it believes the Saudis - not Iran, Russia or Assad - are the major obstacle to peace. "There are some countries that it seems don't want peace to be restored in Syria," a senior official involved in the Syria talks said.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>He also predicted there would be no breakthrough in Munich.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>Meanwhile, Western-backed opposition figures have become increasingly exasperated by what they see as a failure of the Americans to put sufficient pressure on Russia to stop bombing them. They say it is it is impossible to negotiate when they are being bombed. </p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>"One cannot expect the opposition to negotiate with a gun to their heads," French U.N. Ambassador Francois Delattre said in New York.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>Advised by Western officials, notably France and Britain, and backed by Saudi Arabia and Turkey in particular, the disparate opposition groups representing political and armed factions in the talks are demanding concrete measures before returning to Geneva.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>The Kremlin rejects claims that it has abandoned diplomacy in pursuit of a military solution, saying it would continue to providing military aid to Assad to fight "terrorist groups" and accusing Syria's opposition of walking away from the talks.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>Diplomats said Kerry was taken aback by the sudden shift in the Russian position from apparently supporting efforts to replace Assad to throwing its military might behind him.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>"You couldn't sabotage the process more than what the Russians have already done," said a senior Western official. "I don't see any hope today." </p><span id="midArticle_8"/><span id="midArticle_9"/><p> (Additional reporting Parisa Hafezi in Ankara, Jonathan Landay in Washington and Michelle Nichols in New York; Editing by <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=giles.elgood&amp;">Giles Elgood</a>)</p><span id="midArticle_10"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/3upyTeuembI/story01.htm">Source </a>