---
ID: 2899
post_title: 'No jail for ex-NYPD officer Peter Liang in fatal shooting of Akai Gurley &#8211; Los Angeles Times'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-04-19 19:54:04
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/no-jail-for-ex-nypd-officer-peter-liang-in-fatal-shooting-of-akai-gurley-los-angeles-times/
published: true
original_cats:
  - Top Stories
original_title:
  - 'No jail for ex-NYPD officer Peter Liang in fatal shooting of Akai Gurley - Los Angeles Times'
original_link:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNFOYlRzwkALTUPVGBwUPGybcuJrwg&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779089246467&#038;ei=EIwWV_DaG8nOhAHypJr4Dg&#038;url=http://www.latimes.com/nation/la-na-liang-sentencing-20160419-story.html'
canonical_url:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNFOYlRzwkALTUPVGBwUPGybcuJrwg&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779089246467&#038;ei=EIwWV_DaG8nOhAHypJr4Dg&#038;url=http://www.latimes.com/nation/la-na-liang-sentencing-20160419-story.html'
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div data-role="pagination_page" data-content-page="1" readability="102.41438032167">
                          <p>Ex-NYPD officer Peter Liang will not serve time behind bars for fatally shooting an innocent, unarmed black man in 2014 in a case that has drawn the attention of both Asian American and African American protesters.</p><p>A Brooklyn judge sentenced Liang to five years of probation and 800 hours of community service on Tuesday, saying the rookie cop never intended to shoot — let alone kill — Akai Gurley while patrolling a dark stairwell in a Brooklyn housing project.</p>
  <p>Liang was convicted in February of manslaughter and official misconduct for firing a shot that ricocheted off a wall and struck Gurley in the heart, but Judge Danny Chun on Tuesday reduced the manslaughter charge to criminally negligent homicide.</p><aside class="trb_embed" data-content-id="86532973" data-content-size="small" data-content-type="story" data-content-slug="la-na-liang-brooklyn-shooting-20160413" data-content-subtype="story" data-role="socialshare_item  imgsize_ratiosizecontainer " data-state=""/><p>Liang had said he was startled by a loud noise, and his attorneys requested the downgraded charge, saying prosecutors hadn't proved Liang intentionally created a risk.</p><span class="trb_ar_cont" data-ar-cont="Article continues below"/>
    <p>"Shooting that gun and killing someone was probably the last thing in his mind and probably never entered his mind at all," Chun said. "This was not an intentional act. … There's no evidence, either direct or circumstantial, that the defendant was aware of Akai Gurley's presence."</p><p>Liang originally faced up to 15 years in prison, but a Brooklyn prosecutor requested before Tuesday’s sentencing that Liang receive no jail time.</p><p>The case had brought heated emotions from African American activists who wanted accountability for Gurley’s death and from Asian Americans who felt that Liang was being scapegoated because of his Chinese American ancestry.</p><span class="trb_ar_cont" data-ar-cont="Article continues below"/><aside class="trb_embed" data-content-id="86652016" data-content-size="large" data-content-type="image" data-content-slug="la-na-liang-protest-20160419-001" data-content-subtype="photo" data-role="socialshare_item imgsize_ratiosizecontainer lightbox_container " data-state="" data-embed-id="86652016"/><p>Before Tuesday’s sentencing, both groups gathered outside the Brooklyn courthouse.</p><p>As Liang's attorneys filtered into the courthouse, protesters who felt the Liang shooting represented an unsettling trend of police targeting African Americans chanted for harsher punishment: "Indict, convict, send those killer cops to jail. The whole damn system is guilty as hell."</p><p>Liang is the first NYPD officer to have been convicted of an on-duty death since 2005 — a rare victory for Black Lives Matter protesters who have been calling for tougher prosecutions of officers involved in questionable shootings.</p><span class="trb_ar_cont" data-ar-cont="Article continues below"/><aside class="trb_embed" data-content-id="86652015" data-content-size="large" data-content-type="image" data-content-slug="la-na-liang-victim-20160419-001" data-content-subtype="photo" data-role="socialshare_item imgsize_ratiosizecontainer lightbox_container " data-state="" data-embed-id="86652015"/><p>But a small group of pro-Liang protesters also gathered outside the courthouse Tuesday, holding signs that said "selective justice" and "racist prosecution."</p><p>For many of the mostly Asian American crowd, the Liang shooting was a tragic accident caused by difficult patrol conditions in a dark and poorly maintained public housing facility. They felt Liang was an easy target for prosecution because of his ethnicity, while they said white cops went free or were lightly punished for similar incidents.</p><p>Liang grew up in New York's Chinatown as the son of Chinese immigrants, and his conviction in February brought out 10,000 protesters in Brooklyn in the largest display of Chinese activism in recent memory. Rallies were held in other cities across the U.S. as well, with several hundred protesting outside Los Angeles City Hall on Feb. 20.</p><p>Prosecutors accused Liang of deadly negligence. After shooting Gurley, Liang didn't call for an ambulance and didn't perform CPR — factors that seemed to count against him in court. </p><p>Gurley's supporters say that whatever unfairness there may be in Liang's conviction, it can't compare with the injustice of Gurley's death.</p><p>"Akai had family that loved him just like Peter Liang, a mother just like Peter Liang," Gurley's aunt, Hertencia Peterson, told the Los Angeles Times earlier this month.</p><p>"But Liang's mother can come visit him every day. Akai Gurley's mom ... has to visit his grave."</p><p><em>Special correspondent Hansen reported from New York and staff writer Pearce reported from Los Angeles. Staff writer Frank Shyong in Los Angeles contributed to this report.</em></p><p><strong>ALSO</strong></p><p><strong><a href="http://www.latimes.com/nation/la-na-texas-storm-20160419-story.html#nt=oft01a-1la1">Storm caused the worst flooding Houston has seen in 15 years</a></strong></p><p><strong><a href="http://www.latimes.com/nation/la-na-tax-crimes-20160419-story.html#nt=oft01a-1gp3">The wild schemes people will use to commit tax fraud</a></strong></p><p><strong><a href="http://www.latimes.com/nation/la-na-supreme-court-california-tax-20160419-story.html#nt=oft12aH-1gp2">High court ruling is bad news for California taxpayers fleeing to Nevada for lower rates</a></strong></p></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNFOYlRzwkALTUPVGBwUPGybcuJrwg&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779089246467&#038;ei=EIwWV_DaG8nOhAHypJr4Dg&#038;url=http://www.latimes.com/nation/la-na-liang-sentencing-20160419-story.html">Source </a>