---
ID: 3015
post_title: 'The Latest: Clinton discusses equal gender pay in Conn. &#8211; Washington Post'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-04-23 20:10:04
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/the-latest-clinton-discusses-equal-gender-pay-in-conn-washington-post/
published: true
original_cats:
  - Top Stories
original_title:
  - 'The Latest: Clinton discusses equal gender pay in Conn. - Washington Post'
original_link:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNFZf5rvvAQf9mn2WS_hE5nvu6AF0Q&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779093370473&#038;ei=m9YbV7DjLdiLhAG7s4vACw&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/the-latest-cruz-transgender-bathrooms-local-decision/2016/04/23/12034e36-097f-11e6-bfed-ef65dff5970d_story.html'
canonical_url:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNFZf5rvvAQf9mn2WS_hE5nvu6AF0Q&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779093370473&#038;ei=m9YbV7DjLdiLhAG7s4vACw&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/the-latest-cruz-transgender-bathrooms-local-decision/2016/04/23/12034e36-097f-11e6-bfed-ef65dff5970d_story.html'
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id=""><p>WASHINGTON — The Latest on campaign 2016 ahead of presidential primaries in Pennsylvania, Maryland, Delaware, Connecticut and Rhode Island (all times Eastern):</p> <p>3:45 p.m.</p> <p>Hillary Clinton is discussing ways to raise wages, promote early childhood education and reduce the pay gap between men and women.</p> <p>Speaking at a small round-table event in New Haven, Connecticut, Clinton met with working families and local officials to discuss equal pay.</p> <p>Clinton said “it is almost embarrassing” to be discussing equal pay for men and women in 2016. She was joined at a local doughnut shop with Rep. Rosa DeLauro, D-Conn., who recalled the former secretary of state’s time as a law student at nearby Yale University.</p> <p>Clinton heard from workers describe their struggles with employers, home foreclosure and low wages. Clinton said it was “way past time that we have a raise in the nationwide minimum wage” of $7.25 an hour and said the nation should support cities and states like New York and California “that are willing to put a higher floor under low-wage workers.”</p> <p>___</p> <p>2:30 p.m.</p> <p>The Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in Cleveland will be offering free admission and limited hours during the week of the Republican National Convention this summer under a sponsorship deal with AT&amp;T.</p> <p>The museum will be free and open to the public the week of July 17-21 from 10 a.m. to 3 p.m, according to local reports.</p> <p>CEO Greg Harris says the AT&amp;T deal will more than cover what the museum would normally make during that time</p> <p>The museum will close early that week to set up for convention-related events. Groups including the Ohio Republican Party have reserved the space on the shore of Lake Erie for invitation-only events.</p> <p>The free admission covers the Rock Hall’s planned “Louder than Words” exhibit, which premiers May 20.</p> <p>___</p> <p>2:20 p.m.</p> <p>Donald Trump is telling supporters at a Connecticut rally that he can be more presidential if he wants to.</p> <p>Trump told the crowd in Bridgeport, Connecticut, Saturday, that being presidential is “easy — much easier than what I have to do.”</p> <p>He told the crowd that if he acts presidential, “you’re going to fall asleep on me, right?”</p> <p>He also mocked Democratic front-runner Hillary Clinton, saying she frequently uses teleprompters when she speaks at rallies.</p> <p>When being “presidential,” Trump said, “all you do is walk up and talk and leave and everybody falls asleep.”</p> <p>Trump also made clear that he has no intention of reversing any of his controversial policy plans, including building a wall along the length of the southern border.</p> <p> “Everything I say I’m going to do, folks, I’ll do,” he said.</p> <p>___</p> <p>2:10 p.m.</p> <p>Republican presidential hopeful John Kasich is campaigning in Rhode Island ahead of the state’s April 26 primary.</p> <p>Kasich held a town hall event Saturday at Bryant University in Smithfield, where he urged voters to reject GOP front-runner Donald Trump.</p> <p>The Ohio governor kicked off the rally by telling the crowd of about 750 they were “made special” and “made for a purpose.”</p> <p>He had a sharp exchange with a student in the crowd who asked Kasich how the candidate’s plans to lower the budget deficit would impact student loan debt. Kasich shot back by asking 18-year-old Nick Celico, of Westerly, why he hadn’t gone to community college. Kasich later said college costs are too high.</p> <p>Kasich is currently trailing behind Trump and Texas Sen. Ted Cruz ahead of Tuesday’s quintet of primaries in Rhode Island, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Delaware and Maryland.</p> <p>___</p> <p>1:15 p.m.</p> <p>Ted Cruz says businesses and governments should be allowed to build separate bathrooms for transgendered Americans.</p> <p>The Texas Senator has spent days attacking Donald Trump after the Republican front-runner suggested that building separate, transgendered bathrooms would be discriminatory.</p> <p>Speaking to reporters Saturday in Monroeville, Pennsylvania, Cruz said Trump was “embracing the lunatic fringe of political correctness.”</p> <p>Cruz said, “it is not complicated that someone wants to have a separate bathroom” adding “that’s the choice of the given location, of the given local government to allow that, to provide for that.”</p> <p>Pressed on whether he believes transgendered people are real by a reporter saying, “I’m just trying to understand,” Cruz responded “No you’re not” but wouldn’t answer the question.</p> <p>Cruz says many conservatives disagree with Trump on the increasingly contentious issue.</p> <p>___</p> <p>11:00 a.m.</p> <p>A confident Donald Trump says he’s “not toning it down,” a day after his chief adviser assured Republican officials the GOP front-runner will show more restraint.</p> <p>Trump received huge cheers from a crowd of 3,000 in Waterbury, Connecticut Saturday, when he asked, “Isn’t it nice that I’m not one of these teleprompter guys?”</p> <p>Trump said it’s “very easy to be presidential,” before making a series of faux serious faces.</p> <p>The New York businessman is leading his GOP rivals in Tuesday’s primary in Connecticut, according to a Quinnipiac University Poll. He said he likes his chances in Connecticut and the other four primary states.</p> <p>Known for his over-the-top persona, Trump assured the crowd he can be serious but said that he’s got to be different “talking to you people.”</p> <p>Copyright 2016 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.</p> </div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNFZf5rvvAQf9mn2WS_hE5nvu6AF0Q&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779093370473&#038;ei=m9YbV7DjLdiLhAG7s4vACw&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/the-latest-cruz-transgender-bathrooms-local-decision/2016/04/23/12034e36-097f-11e6-bfed-ef65dff5970d_story.html">Source </a>