---
ID: 1096
post_title: >
  Rouhani allies face tough challenge in
  votes to shape Iran
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-02-18 09:35:04
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/rouhani-allies-face-tough-challenge-in-votes-to-shape-iran/
published: true
original_cats:
  - topNews
original_title:
  - >
    Rouhani allies face tough challenge in
    votes to shape Iran
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/PbaVgdR85Cs/story01.htm
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/PbaVgdR85Cs/story01.htm
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="4"><p><span class="articleLocation">ANKARA</span> Iranians will shape the future of the Islamic republic for at least a decade when hardline and moderate candidates battle next week in elections for parliament and the body which will choose the country's next supreme leader.</p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>Allies of pragmatist President Hassan Rouhani, buoyed by Iran's nuclear deal, hope to gain influence, but moves by hardliners to block moderate candidates and disillusion over Rouhani's stalled reforms leave them with an uphill task.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>Last year's nuclear accord led to the lifting of crippling international sanctions, offering the hope of economic upturn and better living standards for many Iranians.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>But the potential opening up to the world - and Rouhani's increasing popularity - have alarmed hardline allies of Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and have intensified the political infighting within Iran's complex power structures.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>The hardline Guardian Council, which vets candidates and laws, blocked thousands of mostly moderate hopefuls from standing in the Feb. 26 parliamentary election. </p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>It also barred nearly 80 percent of candidates standing in an election held on the same day for the Assembly of Experts, which will eventually choose the 76-year-old Khamenei's successor.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>The council vets parliamentary candidates based on their loyalty to Iran's constitution and clerical leadership.     </p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>"In total 6,229 people, out of nearly 12,000 registered hopefuls, have been qualified for the parliamentary vote," said senior Interior Ministry official Hosseinali Amiri, the semi-official Fars news agency reported.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Campaigning for the parliamentary election starts on Thursday and lasts for a week.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>AFTER KHAMENEI</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>Even if his hardline allies were to lose the parliamentary race to their moderate rivals, Khamenei will continue to hold ultimate authority in matters of state, while presidents and lawmakers will come and go.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>Khamenei, supporting the Guardian Council's strict vetting, has repeatedly warned that Iran's enemies have sought to use the elections to "infiltrate" its power structure. </p><span id="midArticle_13"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>"I won’t get tired of saying the truth again and again ... The enemy pursues infiltration into the elections. People must be aware of that and act against what the enemies seek," Khamenei said on Wednesday, </p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>Moderates want to have a say in choosing Khamenei's successor by winning more seats in the assembly, whose 88 elected members will remain in place until 2024.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>In the past, debate about Khamenei's possible successor was considered as undermining the supreme leader, but public discussion has gained momentum ahead of the elections.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>"Khamenei is 76 years old and he has medical issues. The Assembly of Experts' vote will designate future of Iran because the next assembly has to pick the next leader," said a Tehran-based analyst on condition of anonymity.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>In a move which may have been aimed at maintaining hardline domination of the assembly, the Guardian Council approved only around 166 candidates out of 801 registered hopefuls.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>"The Assembly vote is very important ... They will select the supreme leader when it is necessary ... Therefore the enemy is very sensitive about the Assembly," Khamenei said.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>Among those disqualified from the assembly was Hassan Khomeini, an ally of Rouhani and a grandson of Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the late leader of Iran's 1979 revolution.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>The supreme leader has substantial influence, or constitutional authority, over the executive, legislative and judicial branches of government as well as the military and media.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>"With more moderates in the assembly, Iran can have at least a less hardline leader after Khamenei or even a moderate leadership council to lead the country," the analyst said.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>Iran's former president Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani angered hardliners in December when he said the assembly would be open to choosing "a council of leaders if needed" instead of a single supreme leader who rules for life. </p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>Rouhani and Rafsanjani are both members of the assembly and will run again in next week's vote.  </p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Under Iran's constitution, a transitional "Leadership Council" is permitted until a supreme leader is selected by the assembly. But analysts said Rafsanjani advocated a permanent council, fiercely rejected by Khamenei's hardline allies. </p><span id="midArticle_9"/><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>FRIENDLY PARLIAMENT</p><span id="midArticle_11"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>The outcome of the parliamentary vote, essentially a contest between hardline and moderate factions, will have no big impact on Iranian foreign policy. But it will boost the victorious faction's influence in next year's presidential election.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>A friendly parliament could strengthen Rouhani's hand to push through economic reforms to open up the country to foreign trade and investment. It can also help the government carry out a political agenda aimed at expanding social and economic liberties, as promised during his 2013 election campaign.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>"A moderate-dominated Majles (parliament) will not challenge Rouhani's promised reforms as the current one did. Harmony between the executive and legislation bodies will help officials to serve people better," said a senior Iranian official. </p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>Moderates hope that economic and political benefits of the nuclear deal would translate into votes for Rouhani's allies in the polls. </p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>"Iranians understand that if they want reforms, they should have a moderate parliament to help Rouhani carry out his social and cultural policies," said the official.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>But many voters - particularly women and young people - who pinned their hopes in 2013 on Rouhani to bring social change and greater freedom, have grown disillusioned since he took office and may be reluctant to support his candidates next week.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>Rights campaigners say there have been few, if any, moves to bring about greater political and cultural freedoms.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>Analysts said the stakes for Khamenei are high and he will seek to limit Rouhani's popularity and influence.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>"Losing control over the parliament would be a major political blow to hardliners, who then only would have control over the judiciary among Iran's three branches," said political analyst Hamid Farahvashian.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>Khamenei appoints head of the judiciary, which has cracked down on activists and journalists in the recent months, aimed at displaying limits of Rouhani to create a freer society, demanded by moderate supporters of the president.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Human rights groups and the United Nations have criticized Iran for what they say is a crackdown on freedom of expression and the media. </p><span id="midArticle_6"/><span id="midArticle_7"/><p> (Additional reporting by Bozorgmehr Sharafedin in Dubai; Writing by Parisa Hafezi; Editing by Dominic Evans)</p><span id="midArticle_8"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/PbaVgdR85Cs/story01.htm">Source </a>