---
ID: 1065
post_title: 'China sends missiles to contested South China Sea island: Taiwan, U.S. officials'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-02-17 08:00:07
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/china-sends-missiles-to-contested-south-china-sea-island-taiwan-u-s-officials/
published: true
original_cats:
  - topNews
original_title:
  - 'China sends missiles to contested South China Sea island: Taiwan, U.S. officials'
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/E41QKlvwc6E/story01.htm
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/E41QKlvwc6E/story01.htm
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="6"><p><span class="articleLocation">TAIPEI/WASHINGTON</span> China has deployed an advanced surface-to-air missile system to one of the disputed islands it controls in the South China Sea, Taiwan and U.S. officials said, ratcheting up tensions even as U.S. President Barack Obama urged restraint in the region.</p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>Taiwan defense ministry spokesman Major General David Lo told Reuters on Wednesday the missile batteries had been set up on Woody Island. The island is part of the Paracels chain, under Chinese control for more than 40 years but also claimed by Taiwan and Vietnam. </p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>A U.S. defense official also confirmed the "apparent deployment" of the missiles, first reported by Fox News.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>China's foreign minister said the reports were created by "certain Western media" that should focus more on China's building of lighthouses to improve shipping safety in the region.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>"As for the limited and necessary self-defense facilities that China has built on islands and reefs we have people stationed on, this is consistent with the right to self-protection that China is entitled to under international law so there should be no question about it," Wang Yi told reporters in Beijing.    </p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>China claims most of the South China Sea, through which more than $5 trillion in global trade passes every year, and has been building runways and other infrastructure on artificial islands to bolster its title.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>The United States has said it will continue conducting "freedom of navigation patrols" by ships and aircraft to assure unimpeded passage through the region, where Vietnam, Malaysia, Brunei, the Philippines and Taiwan have rival claims.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>Admiral Harry Harris, the commander of the U.S. Pacific Command, said the deployment of missiles to the Paracels would not be a surprise but would be a concern, and be contrary to China's pledge not to militarize the region.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>"We will conduct more, and more complex, freedom of navigation operations as time goes on in the South China Sea," Harris told a briefing in Tokyo. "We have no intention of stopping."</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><span id="midArticle_10"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>RISING TENSIONS</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>News of the missile deployment came as Obama and leaders of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations concluded a summit in California, where they discussed the need to ease tensions in the South China Sea but did not include specific mention of China's assertive pursuit of its claims there.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>China's increasing military presence in the disputed sea could effectively lead to a Beijing-controlled air defense zone, analysts</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>"(The missile deployment) reinforces the view that China intends to exert growing control in these international waters, including potentially by declaring an Air Defense Identification Zone," said Rory Medcalf, Head of the National Security College at the Australian National University.     </p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>Mira Rapp-Hooper, a South China Sea expert from the Center for a New American Security, said it was not the first time that China has sent such weapons to the Paracels.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>"I do think surface to air missiles are a considerable development," she said. "If they have been deployed they are probably China's effort to signal a response to freedom-of navigation operations, but I don't think it is a totally unprecedented deployment."</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>A U.S. Navy destroyer sailed within 12 nautical miles of Triton Island in the Paracels last month, a move China condemned as provocative.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>China last month said it would not seek militarization of its South China Sea islands and reefs, but that did not mean it would not set up defenses.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>"Woody Island belongs to China," said Ni Lexiong, a naval expert at the Shanghai University of Political Science and Law. </p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>"Deploying surface-to-air missiles on our territory is completely within the scope of our sovereign rights. We have sovereignty there, so we can choose whether to militarize it."</p><span id="midArticle_4"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>Taiwan President-elect Tsai Ing-wen said tensions were now higher in the region.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>"We urge all parties to work on the situation based on principles of peaceful solution and self-control," Tsai told reporters.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>Vietnam's foreign ministry did not immediately respond to requests for comment. But in a rare move, the country's prime minister on Monday pressed Obama for a greater U.S. role in preventing militarization and island-building in the South China Sea.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>Images from civilian satellite company ImageSat International show two batteries of eight surface-to-air missile launchers on Woody Island, as well as a radar system, Fox News said.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>The missiles arrived over the past week and, according to a U.S. official, appeared to show the HQ-9 air defense system, which has a range of 125 miles (200 km) and would pose a threat to any airplanes flying close by, the report said.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>In November, two U.S. B52 strategic bombers flew near artificial Chinese-built islands in the Spratly Islands.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>Asked about the report, Bill Urban, a Pentagon spokesman, said: "While I cannot comment on matters related to intelligence, we do watch these matters very closely."</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><span id="midArticle_12"/><p> (Additional reporting by Faith Hung in TAIPEI, David Brunnstrom in WASHINGTON, Jeff Mason and Bruce Wallace in RANCHO MIRAGE, Megha Rajagopalan and Ben Blanchard in BEIJING, Tim Kelly in TOKYO, Martin Petty in HANOI, Matt Siegel in SYDNEY; Writing by Lincoln Feast; Editing by Alex Richardson)</p><span id="midArticle_13"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/E41QKlvwc6E/story01.htm">Source </a>