---
ID: 3194
post_title: 'Google, Fiat Chrysler working on self-driving car deal: sources'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-04-29 21:26:10
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/google-fiat-chrysler-working-on-self-driving-car-deal-sources/
published: true
original_cats:
  - technologyNews
original_title:
  - 'Google, Fiat Chrysler working on self-driving car deal: sources'
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/technologyNews/~3/rAqeXKUpcl8/us-alphabet-fiat-chrysler-alliance-idUSKCN0XQ2J8
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/technologyNews/~3/rAqeXKUpcl8/us-alphabet-fiat-chrysler-alliance-idUSKCN0XQ2J8
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="5"><p><span class="articleLocation">DETROIT</span> Google and Fiat Chrysler Automobiles NV are close to agreeing on a partnership that could break boundaries between Silicon Valley and the auto industry in the race to develop self-driving cars, people familiar with the discussions said on Friday.</p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>The partnership could be announced soon, three people familiar with the situation told Reuters on condition of anonymity because the discussions were private. The talks were first reported Thursday by the blog AutoExtremist.com.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>Google, a unit of Alphabet Inc, and Fiat Chrysler declined to comment.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>Google has said that it does not want to build self-driving vehicles on its own and has explored alliances with auto companies, but none have been finalized. Fiat Chrysler Chief Executive Sergio Marchionne said this week the company was in talks with an advanced technology company, but offered no details. </p><span id="midArticle_4"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>Executives at other auto makers, including Ford Motor Co, General Motors Co and Daimler AG, have expressed wariness about alliances with Alphabet or other technology companies that could relegate them to the role of hardware suppliers. Auto executives have said they do not want to stand by while Alphabet reaps richer profits from the data generated by vehicles and their passengers.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>GM has signaled that it plans to go its own way on driverless car technology, moving to buy self-driving vehicle startup Cruise Automation. </p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>On a conference call after Fiat Chrysler issued quarterly earnings on Tuesday, Marchionne repeated that he was interested in partnerships with Google or Apple Inc.     </p><span id="midArticle_7"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>"Dialogue continues with people who are interested in exploring their relevance in the automotive world and we will continue to help them find their way out," Marchionne said in response to a question about working with non-traditional automakers.    </p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>John Krafcik, a former auto executive who heads Alphabet's self-driving car project, made a public pitch for partners in January at a conference in Detroit in January. Fiat Chrysler officials in Michigan and Italy have declined to comment on speculation that Google's technology could eventually be offered on the new Chrysler Pacifica minivan launched in February. Marchionne and other FCA officials are scheduled on May 6 to visit the Windsor, Ontario plant that builds the Pacifica.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>Auto and technology industry executives have said self-driving vehicles, possibly minivans, might hit the roads first in ride-sharing or shuttle fleets.     </p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>Among the models that Alphabet has been using in its self-driving project is the Lexus RX450h, a hybrid sport utility vehicle, made by Toyota Motor Corp.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><span id="midArticle_12"/><p> (Reporting by Bernie Woodall; Editing by Richard Chang)</p><span id="midArticle_13"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/technologyNews/~3/rAqeXKUpcl8/us-alphabet-fiat-chrysler-alliance-idUSKCN0XQ2J8">Source </a>