---
ID: 5459
post_title: 'Philippines&#039; official hails South China Sea ruling a &#039;crowning glory&#039;'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-07-15 09:01:07
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/philippines-official-hails-south-china-sea-ruling-a-crowning-glory/
published: true
original_cats:
  - topNews
original_title:
  - 'Philippines&#039; official hails South China Sea ruling a &#039;crowning glory&#039;'
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/-Bzm7QOT5Z8/us-southchinasea-ruling-idUSKCN0ZV06F
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/-Bzm7QOT5Z8/us-southchinasea-ruling-idUSKCN0ZV06F
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="6"><p><span class="articleLocation">MANILA/ULAANBAATAR</span> A decision invalidating China's vast claims in the South China Sea was a "crowning glory" that renews faith in international law, the Philippines' top lawyer said on Friday, in Manila's strongest comment yet on its sweeping win.</p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>The remarks by Solicitor General Jose Calida follow two days of carefully calibrated responses from the Philippines and are almost certain to irritate China further.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>Manila has so far been keen not to rock the boat in the hope of starting dialogue toward Beijing allowing it to exercise what the Permanent Court of Arbitration in The Hague ruled were its sovereign maritime rights.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>"It confirms that no one state can claim virtually an entire sea. The award is a historic win not only for the Philippines ... it renews humanity's faith in a rules based global order," Calida told a forum on the South China Sea.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>"The award opens a horizon of possibilities for all stakeholders. The award is a crowning glory of international law."</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Speaking at a meeting of Asian and European officials in Mongolia, Philippine Foreign Minister Perfecto Yasay said Manila "strongly affirms its respect for the milestone decision" while reiterating his call for "restraint and sobriety".</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>China has refused to recognize Tuesday's ruling and did not take part in its proceedings. It has reacted angrily to calls by Western countries for the decision to be adhered to.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>China's Foreign Ministry on Friday said Beijing's position on the case had the support of Laos, the current chair of the Association of South East Asian Nations (ASEAN), a regional bloc long dogged by discord over how to deal with China's maritime assertiveness.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>The verdict was discussed on Thursday between Chinese Premier Li Keqiang and Lao Prime Minister Thongloun Sisoulith ahead a regional summit in Mongolia.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>"Thongloun said that Laos supports China's position, and is willing to work with China to maintain peace and stability in the South China Sea region," the ministry said in a statement.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>The statement did not elaborate. Laos' foreign ministry did not responded to Reuters' request for comment and its state media made no mention of Thongloun's comments to Li.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>Land-locked Laos, which is boosting economic ties with China, will be hosting a security meeting later this month at which the South China Sea is expected to dominate. ASEAN has not issued a statement about the ruling and its members have not said why.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>China's foreign ministry later said Cambodia's Prime Minister Hun Sen had told Li that Cambodia would uphold a "fair and objective stance" on the South China Sea issue and work to maintain friendly China-ASEAN relations, according to a statement.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>Asked about Cambodia's position, Foreign Affairs Minister Prak Sokhonn told Reuters: "We are not involved in this arbitration case and just wish to stand by our policy of neutrality." </p><span id="midArticle_14"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>CAUTIOUS APPROACH</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>China has previously said it has widespread support for its rejection of the case but many countries have stuck to cautious comments about resolving disputes peacefully and respecting international laws.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>China claims much of the South China Sea, through which more than $5 trillion of trade moves annually. Brunei, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam have rival claims.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>Philippines' President Rodrigo Duterte ended his unusual silence at a private function late on Thursday and said he wanted dialogue with China and was considering sending former President Fidel Ramos to Beijing to get the ball rolling.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>"War is not an option," he said. "So, what is the other side? - Peaceful talk."</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>Immediately after the ruling, the normally brash and outspoken Duterte privately told his ministers to be magnanimous and not to pique Beijing, according to one minister.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>But the cautious tone appears to be changing in the Philippines, where there are signs of public disgruntlement with the subdued government response to a decision that most of the country was celebrating.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>The United States, a key Philippines' ally, is urging Asian nations not to move aggressively to capitalize on the court ruling, according to U.S. administration officials.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>The chief of its naval operations, Admiral John Richardson will discuss the South China Sea among other issues when he meets China's navy commander, Admiral Wu Shengli, from Sunday on a three-day trip to "improve mutual understanding", according to a U.S. navy statement. </p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Chinese state media on Friday reported again that China aims to launch a series of offshore nuclear power platforms to promote development in the South China Sea. Experts said little progress had been made on the plan, which would likely stoke further tensions.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>(This version of the story corrects title of Hun Sen in paragraph 13 to prime minister from president)</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><span id="midArticle_11"/><p> (Additional reporting by Simon Webb in BANGKOK, Ben Blanchard and Megha Rajagopalan in BEIJING and Chan Thul Prak in PHNOM PENH.; Writing by Martin Petty.; Editing by Lincoln Feast.)</p><span id="midArticle_12"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/-Bzm7QOT5Z8/us-southchinasea-ruling-idUSKCN0ZV06F">Source </a>