---
ID: 4636
post_title: >
  Britain mourns murdered lawmaker; EU
  referendum in limbo
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-06-17 11:01:13
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/britain-mourns-murdered-lawmaker-eu-referendum-in-limbo/
published: true
original_cats:
  - topNews
original_title:
  - >
    Britain mourns murdered lawmaker; EU
    referendum in limbo
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/n-HxubaUA7Y/us-britain-politics-attack-idUSKCN0Z30PI
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/n-HxubaUA7Y/us-britain-politics-attack-idUSKCN0Z30PI
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="5"><p><span class="articleLocation">BIRSTALL, England</span> Britain mourned lawmaker Jo Cox on Friday after a man wielding a gun and knife killed the 41-year-old in an attack that has thrown a June 23 referendum on European Union membership into limbo.</p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>Cox, a supporter of Britain staying in the EU, was shot and stabbed in her own constituency near Leeds in northern England by a man who witnesses said had shouted "Britain first".</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>She was pronounced dead just over 48 minutes later by a doctor working with a paramedic crew trying to save her life. A 52-year-old man was arrested by officers nearby and weapons including a firearm were recovered. </p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>The killing prompted campaigning to be suspended in the EU referendum, the tone of which has become increasingly angry and bitter and included personal recriminations as well as furious debate of issues such as immigration and the economy.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>Though the motives of the killer were not immediately clear, some suggested sympathy for Cox could boost the Remain campaign which opinion polls indicate had fallen behind Leave. </p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Police said they were not in a position to discuss the motive of the attack.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>"Jo believed in a better world and she fought for it every day of her life with an energy and a zest for life that would exhaust most people," Cox's husband, Brendan, said.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>"She would have wanted two things above all else to happen now, one that our precious children are bathed in love and two, that we all unite to fight against the hatred that killed her."</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>A U.S. civil rights group the Southern Poverty Law Center (SPLC), based in Alabama, said on its website that it had obtained records showing a Thomas Mair had links with the neo-Nazi organization National Alliance (NA) dating back to 1999.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>The SPLC posted images showing what it said were purchase orders for books bought by Mair, whose address is given as Batley, from the NA's publishing arm National Vanguard Books in May of that year. The orders included a manual on how to build a pistol, it said.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>FLAGS AT HALF-MAST</p><span id="midArticle_12"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>Britain's Union flag was flying at half-mast over the Houses of Parliament, Queen Elizabeth's London residence Buckingham Palace and Downing Street, where Prime Minister David Cameron has his official residence. </p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>In Birstall hundreds of people attended a vigil at a local church. </p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>Some people, many weeping, laid flowers outside the Houses of Parliament. Beside a picture of Cox smiling, dozens of white candles lay beside bunches of flowers and a message board upon which people had written their condolences.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>"You can't kill democracy," read one message on Parliament Square. Another said: "We will unite against hatred."</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>Others put flowers on the houseboat on the River Thames where Cox had lived with her husband and two young children aged three and five. </p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>Beside flowers at the murder scene in Birstall, a message read: "Fascists feed on fear." </p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>British politicians paid tribute to Cox and expressed shock at the killing, as did leaders across Europe and the world.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>Cameron said the killing of Cox, who had worked on U.S. President Barack Obama's 2008 election campaign, was a tragedy.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>"We have lost a great star," said Cameron, who called the referendum. "She was a great campaigning MP with huge compassion, with a big heart. It is dreadful, dreadful news."</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Hillary Clinton said she was horrified. German Chancellor Angela Merkel called the attack "terrible" but added that she didn't want to link it to the EU referendum.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>WHO KILLED COX?</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Media reports, citing witnesses, said the attacker had shouted out "Britain first", the name of a right-wing nationalist group that describes itself on its website as "a patriotic political party and street defense organization". </p><span id="midArticle_9"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>The deputy leader of the group, Jayda Fransen, distanced it from the attack, which she described as "absolutely disgusting".</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>West Yorkshire's elected Police and Crime Commissioner said "our information is that this is a localized incident, albeit one that has a much wider impact".</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>The killer was named by media as Thomas Mair.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>Family members, including his brother, said that Mair had not expressed strong political views, the Guardian newspaper reported.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>"He has a history of mental illness but he has had help," the Guardian quoted his brother, Scott Mair, as saying. </p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>"I am struggling to believe what has happened. My brother is not violent and is not all that political. I don't even know who he votes for." </p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>Neighbors were quoted by media as describing a man who had lived in the same house for at least 40 years and helped locals weed their flowerbeds. </p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>Gun ownership is highly restricted in Britain, and attacks of any nature on public figures are rare. The last British lawmaker to have been killed in an attack was Ian Gow, who died after a bomb planted by the Irish Republican Army (IRA) exploded under his car at his home in southern England in 1990. </p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>Colleagues expressed shock and disbelief at the death of Cox, a Cambridge University graduate who spent a decade working for aid agency Oxfam and promoted women's issues.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>"We've lost a wonderful woman, we've lost a wonderful member of parliament, but our democracy will go on," Labour leader Jeremy Corbyn said in a televised statement. "As we mourn her memory, we'll work in her memory to achieve that better world she spent her life trying to achieve."</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><span id="midArticle_4"/><p> (Additional reporting by Kylie MacLellan, Paul Sandle, Michael Holden, Sarah Young, Andy Bruce, Kate Holton and Elizabeth Piper, Writing by Guy Faulconbridge, Editing by Tmothy Heritage)</p><span id="midArticle_5"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/n-HxubaUA7Y/us-britain-politics-attack-idUSKCN0Z30PI">Source </a>