---
ID: 3326
post_title: >
  Trump soars from long-shot to
  presumptive Republican nominee
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-05-04 09:58:12
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/trump-soars-from-long-shot-to-presumptive-republican-nominee/
published: true
original_cats:
  - domesticNews
original_title:
  - >
    Trump soars from long-shot to
    presumptive Republican nominee
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/Reuters/domesticNews/~3/l3oMdhmCuHc/us-usa-election-idUSKCN0XU0TP
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/Reuters/domesticNews/~3/l3oMdhmCuHc/us-usa-election-idUSKCN0XU0TP
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="6"><p><span class="articleLocation">INDIANAPOLIS, Ind.</span> Republican front-runner Donald Trump went from long-shot contender to become the party's presumptive nominee on Tuesday with a commanding win in Indiana, and the party began to coalesce around him as top rival Ted Cruz bowed out of the race.</p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p> The New York billionaire, who has never held public office, had repeatedly defied pundits' predictions that his campaign would implode. He prevailed despite making outrageous statements along the way that drew biting criticism but still fed his anti-establishment appeal.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>The former reality TV star now can prepare for a matchup in the Nov. 8 election with Hillary Clinton expected to be his Democratic opponent. Clinton's march to the Democratic nomination was slowed by rival Bernie Sanders' victory over her in Indiana.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>Trump's immediate challenge is to unite deep fissures within the Republican Party as many party loyalists are appalled at his bullying style, his treatment of women and his signature proposals to build a wall on the border with Mexico and deport 11 million illegal immigrants.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>"We have to unite the party if we want to win in November," said Henry Barbour, a Republican National Committee leader from Mississippi. "Donald Trump is the guy with the keys to the car. He’s the one who needs to unite us. Now is his opportunity. The voters have picked him."</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Trump himself called for unity in a speech at a victory rally that was free of his usual bombast and flamboyance. </p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p> Trump's victory put to rest a belief that Republicans would choose their nominee at a contested convention when party leaders gather in Cleveland July 18-21.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>At his victory rally at Trump Tower in New York, Trump walked on stage with wife Melania and other family members as the Rolling Stones' "Start Me Up" blared over loudspeakers.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>He is likely to formally wrap up the nomination on June 7 when California votes, although Ohio Governor John Kasich vowed to stay in the race as Trump's last challenger.  </p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>Trump called Indiana a "tremendous victory" and immediately directed fire at Clinton.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>"We're going after Hillary Clinton," he said. "She will not be a great president, she will not be a good president, she will be a poor president. She doesn't understand trade."</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>Republican National Committee Chairman Reince Priebus called Trump the party's presumptive nominee in a tweet and said, "We all need to unite and focus" on defeating Clinton.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><span id="midArticle_13"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>CRUZ: "VOTERS CHOSE ANOTHER PATH"</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>As the vote returns flowed in, Cruz announced that he has ended his campaign in Indianapolis, with his wife, Heidi, at his side. Cruz, 45, sounding beaten but defiant, said he no longer sees a viable path to the nomination.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>"We gave it everything we got. But the voters chose another path, and so with a heavy heart, but with boundless optimism for the long-term future of our nation, we are suspending our campaign," said Cruz, a U.S. senator from Texas.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>Clinton's campaign signaled the former secretary of state's approach to dealing with Trump in a statement issued by senior Clinton adviser John Podesta, who said Trump seeks to "bully and divide Americans."</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>"Throughout this campaign, Donald Trump has demonstrated that he’s too divisive and lacks the temperament to lead our nation and the free world. With so much at stake, Donald Trump is simply too big of a risk," he said.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>Cruz had hoped to show he was still a factor in the race. Some at his event expressed shock at the decision by Cruz, who had been the last serious challenger to Trump out of an original field of 17 candidates.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>Dan Follis, 62, was too rocked by Cruz's announcement to know for sure his next thought on the campaign. But he was sure of one thing: "I will not vote for Trump."</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>Trump won at least 51 of 57 possible delegates awarded in Indiana, according to the Associated Press delegate tracker. His victory in the state pushed him to 1,047 delegates of the 1,237 needed to clinch the nomination, compared with 153 for Kasich.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Cruz had 565 delegates before suspending his campaign.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>On the Democratic side, Clinton now has 2,202 of the 2,383 needed, while Sanders has 1,400. </p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>Trump declared Cruz a tough man to beat.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>"Ted Cruz, I don't know if he likes me or doesn't like me. But he is one hell of a competitor. He is one smart guy. And he has got an amazing future," Trump said.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>Trump also reached out to both Hispanics and African-Americans as he talked about ensuring jobs and saying he would "make America great again."</p><span id="midArticle_10"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>"This is going to be a beautiful and loving country," Trump said.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>THIRD-PARTY ALTERNATIVE</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>But anti-Trump groups said they would continue fighting, and Lanhee Chen, who had advised former Republican candidate Marco Rubio, broached the possibility of a third-party candidate.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>"Tonight's outcome raises seriousness &amp; urgency of discussions about third-party alternative; how real it is depends on who steps up to run," he tweeted.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p> Cruz had been counting on a win in Tuesday's primary to slow the New York businessman's progress toward the nomination. But Trump rode momentum from wins in five Northeastern states a week ago to wrest Indiana from Cruz, whose brand of Christian conservatism had been expected to have wide appeal in the state.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>The only hope Kasich has for becoming the Republican nominee is to somehow deny Trump the 1,237 delegates he needs to win the nomination outright and force Republicans at the July convention to choose one of them.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>Kasich vowed to stay in the race.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>"As long as it remains possible Governor Kasich will fight for the higher path," said Kasich senior strategist John Weaver. "Governor Kasich will continue to campaign and offer the voters a clear choice for our country."</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><span id="midArticle_4"/><span id="midArticle_5"/><p> (Additional reporting by Emily Stephenson and Megan Casella in Washington; Writing by Steve Holland; Editing by Leslie Adler)</p><span id="midArticle_6"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/Reuters/domesticNews/~3/l3oMdhmCuHc/us-usa-election-idUSKCN0XU0TP">Source </a>