---
ID: 5536
post_title: >
  Gunman kills three police officers in
  Louisiana; Obama condemns attack
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-07-17 23:27:30
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/gunman-kills-three-police-officers-in-louisiana-obama-condemns-attack/
published: true
original_cats:
  - domesticNews
original_title:
  - >
    Gunman kills three police officers in
    Louisiana; Obama condemns attack
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/Reuters/domesticNews/~3/lnwZET3dNg0/us-usa-police-idUSKCN0ZX0MX
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/Reuters/domesticNews/~3/lnwZET3dNg0/us-usa-police-idUSKCN0ZX0MX
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="7"><p><span class="articleLocation">BATON ROUGE, La.</span> A gunman killed three police officers and wounded three others in Louisiana's capital on Sunday, nearly two weeks after the fatal police shooting of a black man there sparked nationwide protests, one of which led to the massacre of five Dallas policemen.</p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>The suspect, dressed in black and armed with a rifle, was himself shot to death minutes later in a gunfight with police who converged on the scene of what Baton Rouge Mayor Kip Holden said began as an "ambush-style" attack on officers.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>Two Baton Rouge Police Department officers and one sheriff's deputy were killed, and one sheriff's deputy was left critically wounded. Another police officer and one other deputy suffered less severe wounds and were expected to survive.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>Colonel Mike Edmonson, superintendent of the Louisiana State Police, said in a press conference that the gunman was believed to have acted alone, contrary to early reports that police may have been looking for other shooters. </p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>Authorities did not name the suspect. But a U.S. government official told Reuters the gunman had been identified as Gavin Long, of Kansas City, Missouri. He was reported by other media to have been 29 years of age and black.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>The government source, speaking on condition of anonymity, also said investigators have reason to believe an emergency-911 call may have been used to lure police into harm's way.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>Authorities declined to offer any possible motive for the attack.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>And it was not immediately clear whether there was a link between Sunday's bloodshed and unrest over the police killings of two black men under questionable circumstances earlier this month - Alton Sterling, 37, in Baton Rouge on July 5, and Philando Castile, 32, near St. Paul, Minnesota on July 6.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>President Barack Obama condemned the attack, vowed that justice would be done and called on Americans to focus on rhetoric and actions that united the country rather than divided it.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>"We as a nation have to be loud and clear that nothing justifies violence on law enforcement," Obama said in televised remarks from the White House.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>Louisiana Governor John Bel Edwards called the shootings an "unspeakable, heinous attack" that served no purpose.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>"There simply is no place for more violence. That doesn't help anyone, it doesn't further the conversation, it doesn't address any injustice, perceived or real. It is just an injustice in and of itself," he told reporters in Baton Rouge.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>Obama has sought to balance concerns about police abuses, largely against African-Americans, while paying tribute to fallen officers. </p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>He attended a memorial service last week for the five Dallas police officers killed by a black former U.S. soldier who opened fire at the end of an otherwise peaceful protest on July 7 denouncing the Sterling and Castile slayings.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>Those two killings and the reprisal attack on Dallas police by a suspect found to have embraced militant black nationalism renewed national tensions over racial justice and gun violence just as America's presidential campaign was kicking into high gear. The Dallas gunman, Micah Johnson, 25, was killed by police deploying a bomb-carrying robot against him. </p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>The wave of violence also has heightened security concerns across the country, notably in Cleveland and Philadelphia, hosts to this week's Republican National Convention and next week's Democratic National Convention, respectively, which are expected to formally nominate Donald Trump and Hillary Clinton for the election.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>WORRIES AROUND CONVENTION </p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>"We demand law and order," Trump said in a Facebook posting Sunday afternoon. </p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>In a statement, Clinton urged Americans to "stand together to reject violence and strengthen our communities."</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>The head of a Cleveland police union called on Ohio Governor John Kasich to declare a state of emergency and suspend laws allowing for the open carry of firearms during the Republican convention.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>"I don't care what the legal precedent is. I feel strongly that leadership needs to stand up and defend these police officers," Steve Loomis, president of the Cleveland Police Patrolmen's Association, told Reuters in an interview.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>Loomis said he was concerned about copycat shootings at the Republican convention.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>A spokeswoman for Kasich said the governor did not have the power to suspend the open carry law.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Sunday's shootings occurred about a mile from the Baton Rouge Police Department headquarters, where dozens of people were arrested this month while protesting Sterling's death. The 37-year-old African-American father of five was shot and killed at close quarters by law enforcement officers.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>A witness to Baton Rouge shootings, Brady Vancel, told a CBS television affiliate he had seen a gunman, a second man in a red shirt lying in a parking lot and another gunman running away "as shots were being fired back and forth from several guns."</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>He said the police arrived shortly after the gunfire began.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>One of the injured officers was listed in critical condition at Our Lady of the Lake Regional Medical Center, while another was in fair condition, hospital spokeswoman Kelly Zimmerman said. The third was taken to another hospital where he was in fair condition.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>Shocked community members lined the highway about a mile from the shootings, at the site of the protests against Sterling's killing.   </p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>"It never hits home until it's in your own living room," said Redell Norman, an activist who attended the recent protests at police headquarters.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><span id="midArticle_15"/><p> (Reporting by Lisa Lambert, Ian Simpson, Tim Gardner and Julia Edwards, Sarah N. Lynch and Mark Hosenball in Washington; Writing by Paul Simao; Editing by Mary Milliken)</p><span id="midArticle_16"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/Reuters/domesticNews/~3/lnwZET3dNg0/us-usa-police-idUSKCN0ZX0MX">Source </a>