---
ID: 544
post_title: 'Teacher and OC inmate exchanged letters before jail escape, authorities say &#8211; Los Angeles Times'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-01-29 19:35:30
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/teacher-and-oc-inmate-exchanged-letters-before-jail-escape-authorities-say-los-angeles-times/
published: true
original_cats:
  - Top Stories
original_title:
  - 'Teacher and OC inmate exchanged letters before jail escape, authorities say - Los Angeles Times'
original_link:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNEKJt6XfwLhBBn7DjClNwxAapOr_Q&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779039252818&#038;ei=Ar-rVqCANJGLhAGljJho&#038;url=http://www.latimes.com/local/lanow/la-me-ln-oc-manhunt-continues-20160129-story.html'
canonical_url:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNEKJt6XfwLhBBn7DjClNwxAapOr_Q&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779039252818&#038;ei=Ar-rVqCANJGLhAGljJho&#038;url=http://www.latimes.com/local/lanow/la-me-ln-oc-manhunt-continues-20160129-story.html'
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div data-role="pagination_page" data-content-page="1" readability="106.69003626317">
                          <p>A pair of police searches that rocked the Little Saigon section of Orange County late Thursday were connected to the hunt for three fugitives who escaped from a maximum-security Santa Ana jail last week, police said. </p><p>The searches, which focused on a residence and a warehouse, did not result in any arrests, according to Lt. Jeffrey Hallock, a spokesman for the Orange County Sheriff's Department.</p>
  <p>At the same time, officials reveal new allegations about letters exchanged between one of the escapees and the jail teacher arrested on suspicion of helping with the jailbreak.</p><aside class="trb_embed  " data-content-id="85729297" data-content-size="small" data-content-type="story" data-content-slug="la-me-0129-jail-escape-20160129" data-content-subtype="story" data-role="socialshare_item   imgsize_ratiosizecontainer " data-state="  "/><p>Detectives have filed dozens of search warrants, and videos showed SWAT-gear-clad deputies hanging from the sides of armored trucks Thursday night. But despite the exhaustive efforts, no one has seen Hossein Nayeri, Jonathan Tieu or Bac Duong since Jan. 22.</p><span class="trb_ar_cont" data-ar-cont="Article continues below"/>
    <p>“We are continuing to be frustrated by this, but continue to work tirelessly around the clock,” Hallock said.</p><p>The trio escaped from the Santa Ana lockup sometime after 5 a.m., cutting through four layers of steel, metal and rebar as they moved through the jail's plumbing tunnels and an air duct. They ascended to the roof, one floor above the dormitory area where they had been housed, and used a makeshift rope of knotted bed sheets and cloth to rappel down the side of the building.</p><span class="trb_ar_cont" data-ar-cont="Article continues below"/><aside class="trb_embed  " data-content-id="85679292" data-content-size="large" data-content-type="image" data-content-slug="la-me-ln-search-continues-for-dangerous-inmate-001" data-content-subtype="photo" data-role="socialshare_item    imgsize_ratiosizecontainer lightbox_container " data-state="  " data-embed-id="85679292"/><p>The escape went undetected for at least 16 hours, and the Orange County Sheriff's Department has come under fire for allowing the escapees to gain such a head start. </p><p>As the manhunt entered its eighth day, police seemed to be splitting their focus between the Little Saigon neighborhood where two of the escapees may have had ties, and an English teacher who developed a bond with the purported mastermind of the jailbreak while teaching classes at the facility.</p><p>Hallock said Friday that there is a "Vietnamese organized crime element" to the escape, but declined to elaborate. Several people were detained at a home Thursday night during one of the searches, but they were not arrested.</p><p>Earlier in the week, police arrested several people who either knew the escapees or were members of a street gang that Tieu is affiliated with.</p><aside class="trb_embed  " data-content-id="85703003" data-content-size="small" data-content-type="story" data-content-slug="la-me-oc-jail-escape-sg" data-content-subtype="storygallery" data-role="socialshare_item   imgsize_ratiosizecontainer " data-state="  "/><p>The department has not identified the gang, but court records show that Tieu was one of several members of the Tiny Rascals -- a large Southeast Asian gang known to operate in Orange County and Long Beach -- charged in a 2011 murder.</p><p>Nooshafarin Ravaghi, a 44-year-old English-as-a-Second-Language teacher who met Nayeri while teaching a course at the jail, was also arrested Thursday on suspicion that she had aided in the escape.  </p><p>Police have said she developed a bond with Nayeri that went beyond a student-teacher dynamic. The two had exchanged letters outside of class, Hallock said. </p><p>"The correspondence that they had in writing was of a personal nature," he said of the handwritten letters.</p><p>Ravaghi has cooperated with police, admitting she allowed the inmates to view a form of Google Maps, which would have allowed them to see the roof of the jail. She has denied giving the men the cutting tools they would have needed to actually reach the roof.</p><p>Earlier this week, Orange County Sheriff Sandra Hutchens described Nayeri as the "mastermind" of the escape.</p><p>Ravaghi was being held on suspicion of being an accessory to the escape, and is ineligible for bail, Hallock said. She will appear in court Monday, and Hallock said investigators will ask that she be held in lieu of $500,000 bail.</p><p>Ravaghi began teaching ESL courses in Orange County's jails in July 2014, Hallock said. Nayeri speaks English fluently, so it was not clear why he attended the class.</p><p>If Nayeri had asked Ravaghi to provide him any information, like the maps, she should have notified jail staff immediately. Asked if the relationship between the two was romantic, Hallock said that remains a possibility.</p><p>“We do know it was much closer and much more personal than it should have been," he said.</p><p><strong>Follow <a href="https://twitter.com/LAcrimes" target="_blank">@lacrimes</a> and <a href="https://twitter.com/JamesQueallyLAT" target="_blank">@JamesQueallyLAT</a> on Twitter for crime and police news in Southern California.</strong></p></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNEKJt6XfwLhBBn7DjClNwxAapOr_Q&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779039252818&#038;ei=Ar-rVqCANJGLhAGljJho&#038;url=http://www.latimes.com/local/lanow/la-me-ln-oc-manhunt-continues-20160129-story.html">Source </a>