---
ID: 1353
post_title: 'United Tech rejects Honeywell&#039;s $90.7 billion offer'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-02-27 03:06:13
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/united-tech-rejects-honeywells-90-7-billion-offer/
published: true
original_cats:
  - topNews
original_title:
  - 'United Tech rejects Honeywell&#039;s $90.7 billion offer'
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/KicJqF-r4Ag/story01.htm
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/KicJqF-r4Ag/story01.htm
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="5"><p><span class="articleLocatio&lt;/span&gt;n">U.S. industrial conglomerate United Technologies on Friday rejected a $90.7 billion offer by rival aerospace supplier Honeywell International Inc, saying that pursuing a merger would be "irresponsible" toward its shareholders.</span></p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>In an unusual move, the two companies sparred publicly about a deal that, if realized, would create one of the largest U.S. companies with almost $100 billion in annual sales. </p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>Major customers also weighed in, with Boeing saying it would careful scrutinize a deal and underscoring the need for "healthy competition" in its supply chain.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>United Technologies Corp (<span id="symbol_UTX.N_0">UTX.N</span>) said the two companies had talked about a possible combination for years.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>But it said the regulatory environment had changed and a merger now would either be blocked outright, or any synergies would be far outweighed by regulatory delays, required divestitures, and customer concerns and concessions.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>"It would be irresponsible for UTC to move forward with the proposed combination," the company said in a regulatory filing.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>United Tech's filing came hours after Honeywell (<span id="symbol_HON.N_1">HON.N</span>) spelled out the details of its $90.7 billion offer to acquire United Tech, putting pressure on the reluctant aerospace supplier to come to the negotiating table.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>Honeywell Chief Executive Officer David Cote, in a presentation he made to United Tech's top executives last week and then made public on Friday, said a combined company would have double-digit earnings growth after it slashed costs.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>United Tech shares, part of the Dow Jones industrial average <a href="http://www.reuters.com/finance/markets/index?symbol=us%21dji">.DJI</a>, closed 0.4 percent lower at $97.69. That is well below Honeywell's $108 per share offer, suggesting Wall Street, like United Tech, was skeptical about the combination. </p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>"Game on.... There is clear momentum in this saga, and a ratcheting up of the tensions," wrote Rob Stallard with RBC Capital Markets. He cited concerns about business overlap, and said there were unresolved questions about achievable synergies, management roles, cultural fit, and merger premiums.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>Jeff Bialos, a law partner with Sutherland Asbill &amp; Brennan and a former senior Pentagon official, said he was not convinced that the regulatory environment was as tough as United Tech said. Divestitures were always possible, but United Tech likely did not want to cede control to Honeywell, he said.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>United Tech is the parent of Otis elevators, Carrier air conditioners and Pratt &amp; Whitney jet engines, while Honeywell makes thermostats, auto turbochargers and airplane cockpit electronics.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>Areas of overlap between the companies include small aircraft engines, airplane power units and environmental systems as well as wheels and brakes, CRT Capital analyst Peter Arment said in a note to clients. </p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>Honeywell would likely have to divest many assets and raise its offer before a deal was done, Arment added. </p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>U.S. and European regulatory scrutiny would push the deal's completion well into 2017, and potentially into 2018, according to sources familiar with the deal.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>Honeywell said its offer includes $42.63 in cash and 0.614 of its shares for each United Tech share. The proposal represents a 22 percent premium to United Tech's closing price on Feb. 19, the last trading day before the talks were made public. (<a href="http://bit.ly/1oMD1tg">bit.ly/1oMD1tg</a>)</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>Honeywell shares closed 1.1 percent lower at $103.03.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>The companies said earlier this week they had held merger talks but did not offer details. United Tech had said a deal would "face insurmountable regulatory obstacles."</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>"It just cannot happen," United Tech CEO Greg Hayes said on CNBC television this week. "There's just no way to get it done." </p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>A merger could either be blocked outright or made conditional on significant divestitures after a lengthy and disruptive review that would destroy shareholder value, United Tech has said.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>Honeywell, however, said potential regulatory issues would be "easily resolved." </p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>In its presentation, Honeywell said a deal with United Tech would save $3.5 billion each year by cutting spending on raw materials, consolidating real estate and in other ways. Under the offer, Cote would lead the combined company. </p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>United Tech said the merged firm's revenues could fall by $5 billion to $10 billion since the change in “control” would force it to reopen contracts with major aircraft makers, said a source close the matter. That would allow those customers to negotiate lower prices, or even find new suppliers, the source said.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>A merger would create a behemoth responsible for much of the equipment on commercial airliners and many military aircraft, raising concerns for companies like Airbus (<span id="symbol_AIR.PA_3">AIR.PA</span>) and Boeing Co (<span id="symbol_BA.N_4">BA.N</span>), as well as the Pentagon.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>The combined company would generate about 28 percent of sales from commercial aerospace customers, and 13 percent from the defense and space sector, according to Honeywell's presentation.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>(This version of the story corrects third paragraph to customers from suppliers)</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><span id="midArticle_12"/><p> (Additional reporting by Greg Roumeliotis in New York; Writing by Nick Zieminski; Editing by Saumyadeb Chakrabarty, Clive McKeef and Tom Brown)</p><span id="midArticle_13"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/KicJqF-r4Ag/story01.htm">Source </a>