---
ID: 4409
post_title: 'Obama &#039;Fired up&#039; for Clinton&#039;s campaign, urges party unity'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-06-09 21:51:07
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/obama-fired-up-for-clintons-campaign-urges-party-unity/
published: true
original_cats:
  - topNews
original_title:
  - 'Obama &#039;Fired up&#039; for Clinton&#039;s campaign, urges party unity'
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/eieD-xA4q5c/us-usa-election-sanders-whitehouse-idUSKCN0YV1UB
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/eieD-xA4q5c/us-usa-election-sanders-whitehouse-idUSKCN0YV1UB
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="4"><p><span class="articleLocation">WASHINGTON</span> U.S. President Barack Obama formally endorsed Hillary Clinton's White House bid on Thursday and called for the Democratic Party  to unite behind her after a protracted battle with Bernie Sanders for the party nomination.</p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>Clinton, the presumptive Democratic nominee, said it "means the world" to her that Obama has her back in a bruising campaign for the Nov. 8 election. </p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>The endorsement increases pressure on Sanders, a U.S. senator from Vermont, to bow out of the race and lend his support to Clinton so that the party can focus on defeating Donald Trump, the Republican candidate.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>"It is absolutely a joy and an honor that President Obama and I over the years have gone from fierce competitors to true friends," Clinton told Reuters in an interview.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>After an unexpectedly tough battle against Sanders' challenge from the left, former first lady Clinton made history when she reached the number of delegates needed to win the party nomination this week. That made her the first woman to lead a major U.S. party as its White House candidate.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Obama, who enjoys strong approval ratings after nearly eight years in office, will appear with Clinton on the campaign trail next week in Wisconsin, her campaign said.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>The pair were opponents in the 2008 Democratic presidential primary race which Obama won but they buried their rivalry and she served as his secretary of state for four years. Clinton is the 2016 candidate who the White House believes will best safeguard Obama's legacy.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>"I don't think there's ever been someone so qualified to hold this office," Obama said of Clinton in a video. "I'm with her. I am fired up, and I cannot wait to get out there and campaign for Hillary." </p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Trump assailed the endorsement on Twitter: "He wants four more years of Obama—but nobody else does!” </p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>Clinton's campaign tweeted a brash response: "Delete your account."</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>Sanders, who galvanized young voters with his calls for more social equality and measures to rein in Wall Street, has been reluctant to concede the race, despite concerns among leading Democrats that continuing party divisions could hamper Clinton's efforts to beat Trump.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>Obama and other senior Democrats are seeking a delicate balance between the need to unite behind Clinton in the battle against Trump while not alienating Sanders and his supporters.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>Sanders met with Obama at the White House on Thursday, and said afterward he would work with Clinton to defeat Trump. Senator Harry Reid, the top Democrat in the Senate, later met separately with Sanders and said the Vermont lawmaker had accepted that Clinton was the nominee.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>Sanders told reporters, however, that he would stay in the race to compete in the final Democratic primary vote in Washington, D.C., on June 14.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>Obama recalled the party unity that followed his prolonged primary battle against Clinton in 2008.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>"Secretary Clinton and Senator Sanders may have been rivals during this primary, but they're both patriots who love this country and they share a vision for an America that we all believe in," Obama said in the video.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>Nearly half of Americans in a recent Reuters/Ipsos survey approved of Obama's handling of his presidency, a high mark for a president at this point in the job. Among Democrats, his approval rating was 82.3 percent, though 84.3 percent of Republicans disapproved of his leadership.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>SEEKING UNITY </p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>U.S. Senator Elizabeth Warren, like Sanders a progressive and fiery critic of Wall Street, is preparing to endorse Clinton in the coming weeks after staying neutral in the Democratic primary, people familiar with her thinking told Reuters.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>A Warren endorsement of Clinton could come as early as Thursday night, a Boston Globe reporter said on Twitter, citing a Warren source.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Clinton said she and Warren had similar views about key issues such as economic policy and protecting the 2010 Dodd-Frank financial reform law and the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, which Warren pushed to start. </p><span id="midArticle_6"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>"I'm really pleased to have her good ideas and support," Clinton said of the Massachusetts senator.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>Trump said in an interview with Reuters last month that he would try to dismantle the Dodd-Frank law.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Former Maryland Governor Martin O'Malley, who competed against Clinton and Sanders earlier in the nomination race, endorsed Clinton, saying it was time to unite the party.    </p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>In the interview with Reuters, Clinton said her overall economic package, including plans to rein in Wall Street and cut taxes for the middle class, would come during the first 100 days of her presidency if she defeats Trump.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>Clinton has previously said a plan to generate jobs by investing in transportation and other infrastructure spending and immigration reform would be among other early priorities.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>"One of the things that President Obama said yesterday is he thought his job was to remind the American people what a really serious job this is, the tough choices, the hard decisions, the high stakes in choosing a president and commander in chief," Clinton said.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>"And I know how important it is to get off to a really good start in the White House," she said.    </p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>Trump, a wealthy real estate developer who became the party's presumptive nominee last month after seeing off 16 rivals, is well behind Clinton's campaign in terms of fundraising and policy infrastructure.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>On Thursday, his top donors were holding their first official meeting in New York.   </p><span id="midArticle_15"/><span id="midArticle_16"/><p> (Reporting by Emily Stephenson, additional reporting by Ginger Gibson, Steve Holland, Roberta Rampton, Megan Cassella, Doina Chiacu, David Morgan, Susan Cornwell and Alana Wise in Washington; Editing by Alistair Bell and Frances Kerry)</p><span id="midArticle_17"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/eieD-xA4q5c/us-usa-election-sanders-whitehouse-idUSKCN0YV1UB">Source </a>