---
ID: 4837
post_title: 'Carney Pledges Funding to Stabilize Markets After Brexit Turmoil &#8211; Bloomberg'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-06-24 08:41:09
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/carney-pledges-funding-to-stabilize-markets-after-brexit-turmoil-bloomberg/
published: true
original_cats:
  - Top Stories
original_title:
  - 'Carney Pledges Funding to Stabilize Markets After Brexit Turmoil - Bloomberg'
original_link:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNH5wSBD5JfOlDjCJj24uRntSGKeMg&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779138825057&#038;ei=O_FsV9DlDdeIhQGflYP4Dg&#038;url=http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-06-24/bank-of-england-ready-to-provide-250-billion-in-extra-cash'
canonical_url:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNH5wSBD5JfOlDjCJj24uRntSGKeMg&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779138825057&#038;ei=O_FsV9DlDdeIhQGflYP4Dg&#038;url=http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-06-24/bank-of-england-ready-to-provide-250-billion-in-extra-cash'
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div readability="150.91441588025"> <p>Mark Carney said the Bank of England is ready to pump billions of pounds into the financial system as he stands at the front line of Britain’s defense against a Brexit-provoked market crisis.</p><p>The BOE governor declared that the central bank can provide an extra 250 billion pounds ($345 billion) through its existing facilities. It also has further measures if needed to deal with what he described as a “period of uncertainty and adjustment” after Britons voted to end their 43-year membership of the world’s largest single market.</p><p>The pound plunged to a three-decade low, British and global stocks tumbled and European bond spreads widened as the Brexit vote unfolded on Friday. Investor bets on a July interest-rate cut rose and Standard &amp; Poor’s said the U.K. will <a itemscope="itemscope" itemprop="StoryLink" href="http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-06-24/s-p-prepares-u-k-ratings-downgrade-as-britain-votes-to-leave-eu" title="S&amp;P Prepares U.K. Ratings Downgrade as Britain Votes to Leave EU" data-tracker-action="click" data-tracker-category="recirc" data-tracker-label="inline_link.01"><meta itemprop="active" content="true"/><meta itemprop="type" content="StoryLink"/><meta itemprop="suid" content="O99NMN6K50YV"/>lose its top credit rating</a>.</p><p>“Some market and economic volatility can be expected as this process unfolds,” Carney said in a televised statement in London after the referendum result. His comments followed Prime Minister David Cameron’s announcement that he will step down this year, which will inject political uncertainty into an already volatile period.</p><figure class="inline-image inline-media center ">  </figure><p>The BOE has been preparing for more than a year to deal with this outcome and Carney, who is likely to make a televised statement, will now have to rely on that crisis playbook to stem panic in financial markets. With the result announced on a normal trading day, the immediate threats of Brexit could include investors dumping U.K. assets and a drying up of bank funding.</p><p>Almost 52 percent of U.K. voters opted to leave the EU. As the direction of voting became clear, turbulence hit foreign-exchange markets, with the pound falling more than 10 percent against the dollar -- the most on record -- and more than 8 percent against the euro. The U.K.’s FTSE-100 and Europe’s Stoxx 600 both plunged 8 percent as they opened.</p><p>Institutions including the U.S. Federal Reserve and the European Central Bank are primed to pump liquidity into the system if needed. Carney said U.K. policy makers will assess conditions in the coming weeks and “consider any additional policy responses.”</p><p>The BOE has already added extra auctions this month to make funds available to lenders. It could cut its key interest rate to as low as zero from 0.5 percent, perhaps immediately, analysts at ING Bank NV said in a note to clients. Traders are pricing in a more than 50 percent chance that the BOE will cut borrowing costs by its July meeting, according to data compiled by Bloomberg using swaps on the sterling overnight index average.</p><h3>Contingency Plans</h3><p>The BOE “has undertaken extensive contingency planning and is working closely with HM Treasury, other domestic authorities and overseas central banks,” it said in a statement early Friday. “The Bank of England will take all necessary steps to meet its responsibilities for monetary and financial stability.”</p><p>Bank of Japan Governor Haruhiko Kuroda said on Friday that central banks will do their utmost to provide liquidity. Central banks around the world have been on high alert, and the chiefs of the Fed, BOJ, the Bank of Canada and the Swiss National Bank cited the referendum as being <a itemscope="itemscope" itemprop="StoryLink" href="http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-06-21/draghi-says-ecb-is-ready-to-respond-to-any-brexit-turmoil" title="Draghi Says ECB Is Ready to Respond to Any Brexit Turmoil (1)" data-tracker-action="click" data-tracker-category="recirc" data-tracker-label="inline_link.02"><meta itemprop="active" content="true"/><meta itemprop="type" content="StoryLink"/><meta itemprop="suid" content="O94NJ06JIJVF"/>potentially disruptive</a>.</p><p>As well as intensive supervision to ensure banks had enough cash ahead of the vote, BOE plans include <a itemscope="itemscope" itemprop="StoryLink" href="http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-06-21/bank-demand-at-boe-liquidity-auction-plunges-before-brexit-vote" title="Bank Demand at BOE Liquidity Auction Plunges Before Brexit Vote" data-tracker-action="click" data-tracker-category="recirc" data-tracker-label="inline_link.03"><meta itemprop="active" content="true"/><meta itemprop="type" content="StoryLink"/><meta itemprop="suid" content="O948MW6K50XY"/>additional funding operations</a> and activation of swap lines with other central banks to help firms access overseas currencies. It also has a number of other “stability measures” available, though policy makers haven’t provided details in advance.</p><p>What happens next depends on how markets play out . At the time of the <a itemscope="itemscope" itemprop="StoryLink" href="http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2014-10-10/boe-readied-emergency-liquidity-in-event-of-scottish-yes-vote" title="BOE Readied Emergency Liquidity for Scottish Vote Outcome (1)" data-tracker-action="click" data-tracker-category="recirc" data-tracker-label="inline_link.04"><meta itemprop="active" content="true"/><meta itemprop="type" content="StoryLink"/><meta itemprop="suid" content="ND84JD6JTSEC"/>Scottish independence referendum</a> in 2014 -- where a potential splintering of the U.K. was averted -- the BOE’s Financial Policy Committee emphasized readiness to “take steps rapidly” if needed.</p><h3>Current Account</h3><p>Beyond the immediate market ructions, there are longer-term policy issues. While Carney’s view was that the next BOE interest-rate move is “more likely to be up than down,” that was conditioned on a “Remain” decision.</p><p>Recent signs have pointed to an economic slowdown, and the possible consequences of Brexit may include a spike in inflation, a rise in unemployment and even a recession. The BOE potentially faces what Carney has described as a “challenging trade off” between supporting growth and employment and stabilizing inflation.</p><p>The central bank has cited the U.K.’s record current-account deficit as a potential vulnerability, saying “an abrupt decline in capital inflows could pose a major financing difficulty.” Data in March showed the difference between money coming into the U.K. and money sent out widened to 32.7 billion pounds ($43.3 billion) in the fourth quarter. That equates to 7 percent of GDP, the most since records began in 1955.</p><h3>More Support</h3><p>While consumer-price growth is just 0.3 percent, well below the BOE’s 2 percent target, analysts see it accelerating through this year, and a weaker pound could boost prices further by raising the cost of imports.</p><p>In a Bloomberg survey before the vote, 85 percent of respondents said the U.K. economy would need further support in the event of Brexit, with credit-easing measures, quantitative easing and rate cuts among the options. The BOE’s key rate hasn’t budged from its record-low in more than seven years, while the bank stopped asset purchases back in 2012.</p><p>The Monetary Policy Committee has its next scheduled policy announcement on July 14. Before then, the BOE’s Financial Policy Committee -- also chaired by Carney -- holds a quarterly meeting and the governor is due to speak at a press conference to publish its report on July 5.</p><p>There may be other complications. </p><hr/>
<figure class="inline-image inline-media center ">  </figure><p><em>For full coverage of the referendum, <a href="http://www.bloomberg.com/news/special-reports/britains-brexit-question" data-web-url="http://www.bloomberg.com/news/special-reports/britains-brexit-question" data-tracker-action="click" data-tracker-category="recirc" data-tracker-label="inline_link.06">click here</a></em></p>
<hr/><p>Political uncertainty could spark further volatility in sterling and gilts, and possibly hit the U.K.’s credit rating. There may also be questions over Carney’s relationship with Westminster after criticism by some prominent “Leave” lawmakers for being too close to the “Remain” position.</p><div class="terminal-tout" data-tracker-events="click" data-tracker-category="Tout" data-tracker-label="terminal"> <span class="terminal-tout__text">Before it's here, it's on the Bloomberg Terminal.</span> <a href="http://bloom.bg/dg-ws-core-bcom-a1" class="terminal-tout__link" data-tracker-action="click" data-tracker-label="inline_link.07" data-tracker-category="nav">LEARN MORE</a> </div> </div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNH5wSBD5JfOlDjCJj24uRntSGKeMg&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779138825057&#038;ei=O_FsV9DlDdeIhQGflYP4Dg&#038;url=http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-06-24/bank-of-england-ready-to-provide-250-billion-in-extra-cash">Source </a>