---
ID: 223
post_title: 'As Democratic race tightens, tonight&#039;s debate takes on added significance &#8211; Washington Post'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-01-18 01:55:43
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/as-democratic-race-tightens-tonights-debate-takes-on-added-significance-washington-post/
published: true
original_cats:
  - Top Stories
original_title:
  - 'As Democratic race tightens, tonight&#039;s debate takes on added significance - Washington Post'
original_link:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNGs8vu6lOqjc2VSghHKL3hcJSfqUQ&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779032173624&#038;ei=H0acVpDFA87MhAGJ0ZKQAg&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/as-democratic-race-tightens-tonights-debate-takes-on-added-significance/2016/01/17/a353f3d4-bd32-11e5-83d4-42e3bceea902_story.html'
canonical_url:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNGs8vu6lOqjc2VSghHKL3hcJSfqUQ&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779032173624&#038;ei=H0acVpDFA87MhAGJ0ZKQAg&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/as-democratic-race-tightens-tonights-debate-takes-on-added-significance/2016/01/17/a353f3d4-bd32-11e5-83d4-42e3bceea902_story.html'
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id=""><p>Three Democratic presidential candidates will meet Sunday night amid a tightening and increasingly contentious race between former secretary of state Hillary Clinton and Sen. Bernie Sanders (Vt.).</p> <p>With the Feb. 1 caucuses in Iowa nearing, polls show that Clinton’s once-comfortable lead in that state has vanished and Sanders is running neck-and-neck with her. In New Hampshire, which votes second, Sanders appears to have a slight lead.</p> <p>Under the new dynamic, Clinton heads into the debate facing heavy pressure to regain her footing, with <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/clintons-lead-is-evaporating-and-anxious-democrats-see-2008-all-over-again/2016/01/15/ebd8db3c-bacc-11e5-99f3-184bc379b12d_story.html">some allies growing nervous</a> about a repeat of 2008, when now-President Obama surged ahead of her. Sanders is also under pressure to offer more specifics on some of his policy proposals, as the self-described democratic socialist has come under heavier scrutiny. </p> <p>Sunday evening, Sanders released new details about his proposed single-payer health-care plan, which he said will require across-the-board income tax hikes. The plan, which has come under criticism by Clinton, is expected to be a central focus in the debate. </p> <p>The plan would cost about $1.38 trillion a year, according to the “Medicare for all” document he released.<a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2016/01/17/hours-before-debate-sanders-shares-details-of-health-plan-that-would-raise-income-taxes/"/> Sanders proposes to pay for his plan through a combination of premiums paid by employers and households, new income tax rates and other changes to the tax code, and savings from current health-care spending he says the plan would achieve. </p><div class="inline-content inline-video" readability="34">  <p> <span class="pb-caption">Democratic presidential candidates Hillary Clinton and Bernie Sanders criticized each other's positions in separate interviews on CBS's 'Face the Nation' on Sunday, Jan. 17. (Reuters)</span> </p> </div> <p channel="wp.com" class="interstitial-link"> <i>[<a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2016/01/17/hours-before-debate-sanders-shares-details-of-health-plan-that-would-raise-income-taxes/?hpid=hp_hp-top-table-main_pp-medicare725p%3Ahomepage%2Fstory">Sanders shares details of health-care plan that would raise income taxes</a>]</i> </p> <p>Long-shot candidate and former Maryland governor Martin O’Malley joins Clinton and Sanders on stage. The debate is being held in Charleston, S.C. NBC News, YouTube, the Congressional Black Caucus Institute and the South Carolina Democratic Party are sponsoring it.</p> <p>Clinton and Sanders previewed some of their lines of attack in Sunday morning television news interviews, lobbing criticism at each other on guns, health care and Wall Street banks. </p> <p>Clinton accused Sanders of flipping on gun control and not advocating forcefully enough for tighter firearms restrictions. She also argued that his single-payer health-care proposal is hazy. </p> <p>Sanders accused Clinton of being too cozy with Wall Street banks and wealthy donors, criticized her vote for the Iraq War and said she is misrepresenting his health-care plan. </p> <p>Speaking on CNN’s “State of the Union,” Clinton said Sanders “flip-flopped” on holding gun manufacturers accountable for crimes committed with their weapons. On Saturday, <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2016/01/16/sanders-announces-support-for-legislation-that-would-repeal-immunity-for-gun-dealers/">Sanders said</a> he backs legislation that would reverse a law he once supported granting immunity to gun companies. </p> <p channel="wp.com" class="interstitial-link"> <i>[<a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2016/01/16/sanders-announces-support-for-legislation-that-would-repeal-immunity-for-gun-dealers/">Sanders announces support for legislation that would repeal immunity for gun dealers</a>]</i> </p> <p>“Now I hope he will flip-flop on what we call the Charleston loophole and join legislation to close that, because it’s been a key argument of my campaign that we Democrats — in fact, Americans — need to stand up to the gun lobby and pass comprehensive common-sense gun measures that will make America safer,” Clinton said. “And that’s what I intend to do.”</p> <p>Sanders said on ABC’s “This Week with George Stephanopoulos” that he would “take a look” at the legislation referred to by Clinton, which would give law enforcement more time to conduct criminal background checks on individuals looking to buy guns. He also touted his D-minus rating from the National Rifle Association as evidence that he is a staunch supporter of gun-control laws. </p> <p>There are also differences between Clinton and Sanders on health care. Clinton is a defender of the Affordable Care Act, while Sanders is calling for a single-payer system. </p> <p>Clinton said Sanders has not been specific about his health-care proposal. And she said the bills he has introduced in Congress suggest that his plan will give states significant responsibility. Clinton and her allies have argued that such a move could jeopardize insurance coverage in states with Republican governors. </p> <p>“It’s not a traditional kind of single-payer system, as I understand it. It is a state-based system,” she said on CBS’s “Face the Nation,” adding that there are some “very legitimate questions” about what her rival is advocating. </p> <p>Sanders said on “This Week” that he would release the details of his plan “very shortly.” Hours later, he posted the seven-page document outlining his “Medicare for all” plan and how he intends to pay for it. </p> <p>Sanders would introduce a 6.2 percent income-based premium paid by employers, as well as a 2.2 percent income-based premium paid by households. He would hike the top marginal tax rate on those making over $10 million from about 40 percent to 52 percent and he would tax capital gains earnings as income. </p> <p>Those making between $250,000 and $500,000 a year would pay a top marginal rate of 37 percent, up a few percentage points from what they are paying now. </p> <p>In response to the plan, Clinton spokesman Brian Fallon criticized it without addressing specifics. </p> <p>“After weeks of denying the legitimacy of the questions Hillary Clinton raised about flaws in the health-care legislation he’s introduced nine times over 20 years, he proposed a new plan two hours before the debate,” he said. “Hillary Clinton knows what it takes, and has what it takes, to protect the gains of the Affordable Care Act and secure quality, affordable health care for all Americans.”</p> <p>Sanders, who is running as an economic populist committed to curtailing income inequality, said on “Face The Nation” that Clinton has “received significant sums of money from Wall Street,” an attack he has consistently lobbed in the campaign. On the same program, he highlighted Clinton’s vote to authorize the 2003 U.S.-led invasion of Iraq, which he opposed. </p> <p>Sanders <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/post-politics/wp/2016/01/17/sanders-says-hes-very-healthy-amid-reports-that-clinton-ally-is-seeking-medical-records/">also vowed</a> to release his health records after <a href="http://www.politico.com/story/2016/01/clinton-surrogate-to-demand-sanders-release-medical-records-217880">Politico reported</a> that David Brock, founder of a pro-Clinton super PAC, was preparing to call on him to do so. </p> <p>“Of course we’re going to release our medical records,” he said on “State of the Union.” “Thank God, I am very healthy. We will get medical records out the same way that Secretary Clinton has gotten her records out. It is not a problem.”</p> <p>Asked about the matter on the same program, Clinton distanced herself from the dustup. But she didn’t argue that the issue should not be raised. </p> <p>“I don’t know anything about it, but I have released my medical records,” she said. “And I remember being asked frequently for me to do so. And, so, obviously that’s, you know, something I will leave up to the Sanders campaign.”</p> <p>John Wagner, Jose DelReal, Philip Rucker, David Weigel, Anne Gearan and Abby Phillip contributed to this report. </p>  </div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNGs8vu6lOqjc2VSghHKL3hcJSfqUQ&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779032173624&#038;ei=H0acVpDFA87MhAGJ0ZKQAg&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/as-democratic-race-tightens-tonights-debate-takes-on-added-significance/2016/01/17/a353f3d4-bd32-11e5-83d4-42e3bceea902_story.html">Source </a>