---
ID: 3001
post_title: 'Look Mao, no hands! China&#039;s roadmap to self-driving cars'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-04-23 07:53:04
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/look-mao-no-hands-chinas-roadmap-to-self-driving-cars/
published: true
original_cats:
  - technologyNews
original_title:
  - 'Look Mao, no hands! China&#039;s roadmap to self-driving cars'
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/technologyNews/~3/UTbez2CYlnQ/us-autoshow-beijing-china-selfdriving-idUSKCN0XK021
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/technologyNews/~3/UTbez2CYlnQ/us-autoshow-beijing-china-selfdriving-idUSKCN0XK021
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="6"><p><span class="articleLocation">BEIJING</span> In the race to develop self-driving cars, the United States and Europe lead in technology, but China is coming up fast in the outside lane with a regulatory structure that could put it ahead in the popular adoption of autonomous cars on its highways and city streets.</p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>A draft roadmap for having highway-ready, self-driving cars within 3-5 years and autonomous vehicles for urban driving by 2025 could be unveiled as early as this year, said Li Keqiang, an automotive engineering professor at Tsinghua University who chairs the committee drafting the plan. The panel is backed by the powerful Ministry of Industry and Information Technology.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>The draft will set out technical standards, including a common language for cars to communicate with each other and  infrastructure, and regulatory guidelines - a unified framework that contrasts with a patchwork of state laws and standards in the United States.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>Without coordination, that patchwork could hold back the development of self driving cars in the U.S., David Strickland, a former safety chief for the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, said at an event in Beijing this month.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>China's top-down approach could see it overtake the U.S. and Europe, where automakers have generally been left to agree among themselves on industry standards. A push for self-driving and electric cars also fits with Beijing's shift to an economy driven by high-tech and consumer industries rather than heavy industry and low-end manufacturing.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>"If we can convince the government that every company, every car on the road must use this (single standard) ... then there is a chance China can beat the rest of the world" to the widespread use of self-driving cars, said Li Yusheng, head of Chongqing Changan Automobile's autonomous drive program.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>China is ripe for the advent of self-driving cars. It's the world's biggest autos market and is blighted by choking air pollution, traffic congestion and often erratic driving. More than 200,000 people die each year in road accidents, according to World Health Organisation estimates.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>As relative newcomers to mass car ownership Chinese also tend not to share the West's love affair with driving. In a 2015 World Economic Forum survey, 75 percent of Chinese said they would likely ride in a self-driving car, versus half of Americans. Within 20 years, China will be the largest market for autonomous features, accounting for at least a quarter of global demand, says Boston Consulting Group.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>BIG AMBITIONS</p><span id="midArticle_10"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>The China draft would be opened up for industry comment and input from a range of ministries, ultimately going to the State Council, or cabinet, for approval.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>At a most basic level, the committee will define a 'self-driving' car and set a minimum level of functionality, said Bai Jie, a professor at Tongji University who also sits on the expert committee.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>In other respects, China plans to be more ambitious. It may adopt cellular data technology - already used in many cars to access the Internet - for cars to communicate, rather than the dedicated short-range communications (DSRC) standard used in the U.S. and Europe, said Li, the panel chairman.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>"The U.S., Europe and Japan spent so much time developing DSRC, so they strongly recommend it for China," Li said. "Here, we're just beginning so why not choose advanced technology like LTE (Long Term Evolution wireless broadband technology) or 5G?"</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>China's provisional timeline would put it at least in line with, if not ahead, of others developing self-driving cars.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>By 2020, Toyota Motor aims to market a car that can drive by itself on highways, and Mercedes, after two decades of research, plans to launch a self-driving car, though drivers would be required to take control in certain situations.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>Chinese automakers including SAIC Motor and Ford Motor's local partner Changan have internal targets that match the likely draft roadmap, and are represented on the experts committee, Li said, while foreign car makers are not.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>SELF-DRIVE TRIP</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>To be sure, China has some way to go to become a global pacesetter in autonomous driving.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>Li, the committee chief, said the panel was only now looking into legal issues around self-driving cars, such as who is liable in any collision.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Li Shufu, chairman of automaker Geely [GEELY.UL], has said China must revise its laws so the manufacturer, not the driver, is held responsible for accidents when a car is in self-drive mode. "If (our) legislation lags behind, self-driving cars will be difficult to sell in China," he said.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>"It's certainly possible for the Chinese auto industry to make significant headway with government backing, but there's still a lot going into developing that technology, making sure it's safe, and that means a certain number of miles driven," said Jeremy Carlson, an analyst at consultancy IHS Automotive.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>Ahead of next week's Beijing autoshow, Changan took a couple of its prototype self-driving sedans for a 2,000 km (1,243 mile) trip from its Chongqing headquarters to the Chinese capital.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>With a test engineer behind the wheel, but with his hands in his lap, the automated system guided the car along the highway at 80 km per hour, adjusting speed for traffic and speed-limit signs, while keeping centered in its lane - roughly on par with the self-drive capabilities of Tesla models already on the market.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>Changan's Li said a self-driving model should be on the market in 2-3 years, with the automaker spending 5 billion yuan  ($773 million) to further the technology by 2020. It is also in talks with Internet giant Baidu on developing automated driving technology.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>"The intersection between technology companies and automakers is the space to watch," said Wang Yanmin, a professor at Beijing Normal University.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><span id="midArticle_12"/><p> (Reporting by Jake Spring, with additional reporting by Norihiko Shirouzu and Sue-lin Wong; Editing by Ian Geoghegan)</p><span id="midArticle_13"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/technologyNews/~3/UTbez2CYlnQ/us-autoshow-beijing-china-selfdriving-idUSKCN0XK021">Source </a>