---
ID: 5184
post_title: 'Clinton &#039;extremely careless&#039; with emails, but FBI recommends no charges'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-07-05 20:05:05
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/clinton-extremely-careless-with-emails-but-fbi-recommends-no-charges/
published: true
original_cats:
  - topNews
original_title:
  - 'Clinton &#039;extremely careless&#039; with emails, but FBI recommends no charges'
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/scEMzVh480M/us-usa-election-clinton-emails-idUSKCN0ZL1US
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/scEMzVh480M/us-usa-election-clinton-emails-idUSKCN0ZL1US
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="5"><p><span class="articleLocation">WASHINGTON</span> The FBI recommended on Tuesday that no criminal charges be filed over Hillary Clinton's use of private email servers while she was secretary of state, but sharply rebuked the Democratic U.S. presidential candidate for "extremely careless" handling of classified information.</p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>While FBI Director James Comey's announcement lifted a cloud of uncertainty for Clinton's White House campaign, his strong criticism of her judgment is likely to fuel a continued onslaught on the email issue by her Republican presidential rival, Donald Trump.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>In a lengthy statement on the Federal Bureau of Investigation's conclusions from its yearlong investigation, Comey directly contradicted statements Clinton has made while defending her use of the private email set-up.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>He said, for example, that the FBI found at least 110 emails that contained classified information when they were sent,  although she has repeatedly said she never sent or received classified information on her private servers.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>"Although we did not find clear evidence that Secretary Clinton or her colleagues intended to violate laws governing the handling of the classified information, there is evidence that they were extremely careless in their handling of very sensitive, highly classified information," Comey said.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>But he said the FBI concluded "no reasonable prosecutor" would bring charges. "Although the Department of Justice makes final decisions on matters like this, we are expressing to Justice our view that no charges are appropriate in this case," Comey told reporters in Washington.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>His recommendation will likely stand. The country's top prosecutor, U.S. Attorney General Loretta Lynch, said on Friday that she would accept the recommendations of career prosecutors and the FBI director on whether to charge Clinton for mishandling emails.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>The FBI probe has dogged Clinton for the past year, contributing to her low poll ratings on honesty and trustworthiness. Republicans have pointed to the controversy as evidence that she considered herself above the law.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Clinton's campaign was anxious to move on after Comey's announcement, saying in a statement it was "pleased" with the FBI decision.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>"As the secretary has long said, it was a mistake to use her personal email and she would not do it again. We are glad that this matter is now resolved," spokesman Brian Fallon said.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>He did not respond to questions about Comey's rebuttal of the main arguments Clinton has offered in defense of her email.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>Trump has hammered Clinton on the issue, saying the investigation should disqualify her from being president, and he is unlikely to let up.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>On Tuesday, he said the FBI decision was unfair. "The system is rigged," he said on Twitter. "As usual, bad judgment."</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>Comey's announcement came hours before Clinton's first campaign appearance with President Barack Obama, in North Carolina. It also came less than three weeks before the Democratic National Convention at which Clinton is to be nominated as the party's candidate for the Nov. 8 election.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>CLINTON STILL UNDER REPUBLICAN FIRE</p><span id="midArticle_0"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>The FBI has been investigating whether Clinton broke the law as result of personal email servers kept in her Chappaqua, New York, home while she was secretary of state from 2009 to 2013. One of the questions is whether she mishandled classified information on the servers.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>As the investigation wound up, Clinton underwent a voluntary 3-1/2-hour interview with the FBI on Saturday in Washington.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>Comey said the FBI did not find that Clinton or her colleagues intended to violate the law, and that there was no "intentional misconduct" by her lawyers who sorted her emails.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>He said her staff should have known Clinton's private email was an improper place for classified information, but there was no evidence that anyone had hacked Clinton's communications.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>The FBI found 110 emails in 52 email chains that contained information that was classified at the time the messages were sent, Comey said. Eight of those chains contained "top secret" information, the highest level of government classification for material that could harm national security.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Another 36 email chains contained "secret" information, and eight "confidential" information, he said. Agents also found three classified emails among the thousands Clinton never returned to the State Department.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>Comey said there were no previous cases that supported filing criminal charges against Clinton. Other cases had involved intentional mishandling of information, he said, and there was no evidence Clinton knew she was violating the law.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>Last year, the FBI recommended that former CIA director David Petraeus be charged with a felony for his mishandling of classified information with his biographer, with whom he was having an affair. </p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>In that case, however, the FBI had evidence that Petraeus knew the information was highly classified. Petraeus eventually pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge of mishandling classified information.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>Republican lawmakers have called for an independent investigation of Clinton, saying they do not trust the Justice Department to handle the inquiry with impartiality.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>Republican criticism of the process heated up after Clinton's husband, former President Bill Clinton, met privately with Attorney General Lynch in Phoenix last week. Lynch, who was appointed by Obama, later said she regretted the meeting and said she and Bill Clinton did not discuss the investigation.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>After Comey's statement, Clinton quickly became one of the top trending topics on Twitter, with about 515,000 tweets posted by early afternoon. The overall sentiment was more negative than positive, with about 3.5 negative tweets for every positive tweet, according to social media analytics firm Zoomph.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>House of Representatives Speaker Paul Ryan, the highest ranking elected Republican, said Comey's announcement "defies explanation."</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>"Declining to prosecute Secretary Clinton for recklessly mishandling and transmitting national security information will set a terrible precedent," Ryan said. "The American people will reject this troubling pattern of dishonesty and poor judgment," he said.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><span id="midArticle_15"/><p> (Additional reporting by Jonathan Allen and Angela Moon in New York; Editing by Jonathan Oatis and Frances Kerry)</p><span id="midArticle_16"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/scEMzVh480M/us-usa-election-clinton-emails-idUSKCN0ZL1US">Source </a>