---
ID: 4025
post_title: 'Tropical Depression Two Takes Aim at the Southeast Coast | The Weather Channel &#8211; The Weather Channel'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-05-28 00:25:05
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/tropical-depression-two-takes-aim-at-the-southeast-coast-the-weather-channel-the-weather-channel/
published: true
original_cats:
  - Top Stories
original_title:
  - 'Tropical Depression Two Takes Aim at the Southeast Coast | The Weather Channel - The Weather Channel'
original_link:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNF-k6N8ZDHtN6s998l2oW0SAvGgGw&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779116476850&#038;ei=YOVIV4jTG6m2wQHptpmAAQ&#038;url=https://weather.com/storms/hurricane/news/tropical-depression-two-atlantic-2016'
canonical_url:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNF-k6N8ZDHtN6s998l2oW0SAvGgGw&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779116476850&#038;ei=YOVIV4jTG6m2wQHptpmAAQ&#038;url=https://weather.com/storms/hurricane/news/tropical-depression-two-atlantic-2016'
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div readability="111.78567079359"><p style="box-sizing: border-box;">On Friday afternoon, the National Hurricane Center (NHC) redesignated Invest 91L as Tropical Depression Two. Tropical Depression Two will bring bad beach weather to the coastal Carolinas and Georgia for the Memorial Day weekend, including rip currents, potentially heavy rain, and battering waves.</p><p>The depression is forecast to strengthen into Tropical Storm Bonnie Friday night. Here is the latest on the depression.</p><h3 style="box-sizing: border-box;">Highlights </h3><ul><li style="box-sizing: border-box;">Tropical Depression Two is centered around 400 miles southeast of Charleston, South Carolina and about 405 miles east-southeast of Hilton Head Island, South Carolina</li><li style="box-sizing: border-box;">The depression is forecast to strengthen into Tropical Storm Bonnie Friday night as it moves slowly well to the north of the northern Bahamas.</li><li style="box-sizing: border-box;">This system will pose a threat to the Florida, Georgia, and Carolina coasts beginning Saturday in the form of increased surf and rip currents. By late Saturday, winds are anticipated to increase along the South Carolina coast, and will continue through Sunday. These winds may increase to 40 mph near the coast and on the water. </li><li style="box-sizing: border-box;">A Tropical Storm Warning is in effect for the South Carolina coast from the Savannah River to Little River Inlet.</li></ul><p style="box-sizing: border-box;">(<strong>MORE: <a href="http://weather.com/storms/hurricane/news/tropical-update-atlantic-pacific-hurricane-season">Expert Analysis</a> |</strong> <strong><a href="http://weather.com/storms/hurricane">Hurricane Central</a>)</strong></p><p>Over the last few days, this system has gained enough organization be deemed a tropical depression.</p><p>On Friday afternoon, the Air Force Reserve Hurricane Hunters found that former 91L had a closed circulation and robust central thunderstorm activity. Thunderstorm activity has ticked upward in the recent day or two.</p><p>The latest forecast path brings Tropical Depression Two (as a tropical storm) to near the coastline of South Carolina late Saturday or early Sunday.</p><h3><strong>Potential Impacts</strong></h3><p>The main impacts from this system will be poor beach and boating conditions this weekend.</p><p>Those impacts will mostly be increased rainfall and the potential for rip currents and high surf for parts of the Southeast coast during the Memorial Day weekend. One to three inches of rainfall are forecast along the low country of South Carolina and coastal North Carolina.</p><p>In addition, waves upwards of 13 feet and winds gusting to tropical storm force are likely in the offshore South Carolina waters Saturday night into Sunday. </p><p>(<strong>MORE: <a href="http://weather.com/travel/commuter-conditions/news/memorial-day-weekend-travel-forecast-2016">Holiday Weekend Outlook</a></strong>)</p><p>Tropical storm warnings are in effect from , South Carolina to , North Carolina. Tropical storm watches are in effect from , Georgia to , North Carolina.</p><p>If you have plans to hit the beach along the Southeast coast this holiday weekend, we don't suggest canceling plans yet. Boating conditions may want to be reconsidered. Check back with us at weather.com. We will continue to watch this situation closely, and will provide updates over the next few days.</p><p>(<strong>FORECAST: <a href="http://weather.com/weather/holiday/memorial-day//l/USVA0797:1:US">Virginia Beach</a> | <a href="http://weather.com/weather/holiday/memorial-day//l/USNC0301:1:US">Hatteras</a> | <a href="http://weather.com/weather/holiday/memorial-day//l/USSC0239:1:US">Myrtle Beach</a> | <a href="http://weather.com/weather/holiday/memorial-day//l/USFL0106:1:US">Daytona Beach</a></strong>)</p><h3><strong>Southeast Coast is Typically an Early Season Area to Watch</strong></h3><p>The area off the Southeast coast, as well as the Gulf of Mexico and northwest Caribbean, is a part of the Atlantic basin where early-season tropical or subtropical storm development is most likely.</p><p>That said, it's not a very active time of year for storms to form compared to the peak August-October period. For example, only one named storm forms during June every other year, on average.</p><p><strong>(MORE: <a href="http://weather.com/storms/hurricane/news/june-hurricanes-tropical-storms-formation-locations">Where June Storms Develop</a>)</strong></p><p>Recent seasons have had activity before the start of June.</p><p>Last May, <a href="http://weather.com/storms/hurricane/news/tropical-storm-ana-atlantic-hurricane-season">Tropical Storm Ana</a> formed off the Southeast coast before making landfall near Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, with minor impacts.</p><p>In 2012 two named storms, Alberto and Beryl, formed during May off the Southeast coast. Beryl would go on to make landfall in northeast Florida, while Alberto moved out to sea.</p><p><strong>(MORE: <a href="http://weather.com/storms/hurricane/news/hurricane-season-begins-before-june-1">When Hurricane Season Starts Early</a>)</strong></p><h3><strong>Difference Between Subtropical and Tropical Storms</strong></h3><p>A subtropical depression or storm exhibits features of both tropical and non-tropical systems, with a broad wind field, no cold or warm fronts, and generally low-topped thunderstorms spaced some distance from the center.</p><p>Subtropical cyclones typically are associated with upper-level lows and have colder temperatures aloft, whereas tropical cyclones are fully warm-core, and upper-level high-pressure systems overhead help facilitate their intensification.</p><p>Because of this hybrid nature, the National Hurricane Center still issues advisories and forecasts (i.e. projected path) for subtropical depressions and storms and assigns a number or name much like a regular tropical depression or tropical storm.</p><p>Occasionally, if thunderstorms cluster close enough and persist near the center, latent heat given off aloft from the thunderstorms can warm the air enough to make the storm a fully tropical storm.</p><p>When that happens, the wind field will tighten closer to the center. Of course, this would also open the door to further intensification.</p><h3>MORE ON WEATHER.COM: Hurricanes From Space - Satellite Imagery</h3><p>Stay tuned to The Weather Channel and check back with weather.com for updates on this system.</p><h3> </h3></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNF-k6N8ZDHtN6s998l2oW0SAvGgGw&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779116476850&#038;ei=YOVIV4jTG6m2wQHptpmAAQ&#038;url=https://weather.com/storms/hurricane/news/tropical-depression-two-atlantic-2016">Source </a>