---
ID: 714
post_title: >
  Viacom names CEO Dauman as chair as
  Redstone exits; daughter protests
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-02-05 01:00:22
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/viacom-names-ceo-dauman-as-chair-as-redstone-exits-daughter-protests/
published: true
original_cats:
  - topNews
original_title:
  - >
    Viacom names CEO Dauman as chair as
    Redstone exits; daughter protests
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/neN-wqH4YWo/story01.htm
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/neN-wqH4YWo/story01.htm
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="7"><p><span class="articleLocation">NEW YORK</span> Viacom Inc's board of directors named Chief Executive Officer Philippe Dauman as executive chairman, replacing majority owner Sumner Redstone, overriding calls for an independent board chief from Redstone's daughter, who voted against Dauman. </p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>Viacom (<span id="symbol_VIAB.O_0">VIAB.O</span>) announced on Thursday that the ailing 92-year-old Redstone was becoming chairman emeritus, a day after CBS Corp (<span id="symbol_CBS.N_1">CBS.N</span>) said Redstone, also the CBS majority owner, was stepping down as executive chairman and being replaced by CEO Leslie Moonves.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>The boards of CBS and Viacom have been discussing Redstone stepping down for several weeks, according to two sources familiar with the situation. </p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>Thursday's decision puts Viacom firmly in the hands of Dauman, a longtime associate of Sumner Redstone. His daughter, Shari, said in a statement she wanted someone who was not a member of her father's trust to run Viacom, which would have excluded Dauman.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>Dauman and Moonves are natural rivals as leaders of the two halves of the empire that Redstone separated 10 years ago. After Redstone's eventual death, analysts expect several scenarios, such as selling the companies in pieces, leaving them as they are, or reuniting them, which could pit the executives against one another. </p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Sumner Redstone and the rest of Viacom's board voted in favor of Dauman, and only Shari Redstone voted against him, according to a source close to the company. Viacom said Shari Redstone turned down the non-executive chairman role. </p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>Shari Redstone will "continue to advocate for what she believes to be in the best interests of Viacom shareholders,” she said in a statement. </p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>Viacom shares initially rose sharply, but later pared gains, closing up 1.5 percent at $45.34 on Nasdaq.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Investor reaction was mixed. </p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>SpringOwl Asset Management, a Viacom shareholder that has agitated for change, was disappointed by the move. "It raises questions about the board, corporate governance and fiduciary duties," the firm said in a statement. "The market agrees ... that someone other than Philippe Dauman should be the Chairman."</p><span id="midArticle_10"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>Michael Cuggino, president and portfolio manager at San Francisco-based Permanent Portfolio of Family Of Funds, which is the fifth largest voting shareholder in Viacom and CBS,  applauded Dauman's appointment, and was willing to give him time to improve the company’s performance. </p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>“Viacom’s issues have not gone away and they still need to be tackled, but all the noise surrounding Sumner’s situation has been taken out of the equation,” Cuggino said. “The answer to whether Philippe is the right guy to do this will come later."</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>Sal Muoio, whose investment firm also is a top owner of voting Viacom shares, said he is also willing to give Dauman time: “This at least is a step toward clarity. I think we need to wait and see how these operational things unfold.” </p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>Mario Gabelli, the largest Viacom shareholder outside the Redstone family, said on financial news channel CNBC that Dauman has six to nine months to prove himself. </p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>"Philippe has to deliver," Gabelli told Reuters in an interview. "How does he jump-start the process? It's going to be tough to get into the digital world and over-the-top (Internet), given his perception of what his core competences are. It's going to be a challenge."</p><span id="midArticle_15"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>Gabelli dismissed the idea that Moonves could take over both companies: “He can’t do both, I don’t think.” </p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>Redstone hived off Viacom from CBS, expecting faster growth from the owner of MTV and Paramount than the storied television network, but in recent years CBS has outperformed Viacom. CBS shares are up more than 135 percent in the last five years, while Viacom has eked out a 3 percent gain.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>Viacom in recent years has suffered from falling ratings at its cable networks as its audience of younger viewers migrate to online and mobile video. In April 2015, the company announced a restructuring to save $350 million annually. Dauman has taken steps to woo advertisers by using data to better target their commercials. </p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>The elder Redstone has faced questions about his health and leadership abilities for some time. He underwent a mental examination last Friday by a psychiatrist hired by his former girlfriend, Manuela Herzer, who has challenged Redstone's mental competency in a lawsuit.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>The results of the examination have not been made public. Neither CBS nor Viacom explained why Redstone stepped aside.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>After Herzer's lawsuit, investor Gabelli called for the media company to disclose the state of Redstone's mental competence.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Shari Redstone, 60, has said both companies needed an "independent voice" as chair who was not involved in the family's personal matters. She supported Moonves as CBS chief.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>Dauman serves as a Sumner Redstone trustee in the event of his death as well as his health care proxy. </p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>Shari Redstone believes Herzer's lawsuit is weighing on her father's mind. </p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>"Ms. Herzer's lawsuit, and the fact she is actually trying to once again insert herself into my father's life, is causing my father tremendous stress and agitation," she said in a declaration to a California court filed this week. </p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>Redstone controls about 80 percent of the voting shares in Viacom and CBS Corp through a holding company.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>In January, Viacom said it cut the compensation of its top two executives, Redstone and Dauman, as the company faced business pressures and a sharp drop in its share price.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><span id="midArticle_12"/><p> (Reporting by Supantha Mukherjee in Bengaluru and Jessica Toonkel in New York; Additional reporting by <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=lisa.richwine&amp;">Lisa Richwine</a> in Los Angeles and Dan Levine in San Francisco; Writing by Nick Zieminski and <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=bill.rigby&amp;">Bill Rigby</a> in New York; Editing by <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=tiffany.wu&amp;">Tiffany Wu</a>, Bill Rigby and Jeffrey Benkoe)</p><span id="midArticle_13"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/neN-wqH4YWo/story01.htm">Source </a>