---
ID: 147
post_title: >
  Twitter sued by U.S. widow for giving
  voice to Islamic State
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-01-15 02:53:04
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/twitter-sued-by-u-s-widow-for-giving-voice-to-islamic-state/
published: true
original_cats:
  - technologyNews
original_title:
  - >
    Twitter sued by U.S. widow for giving
    voice to Islamic State
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/technologyNews/~3/JGwh5pFfijk/story01.htm
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/technologyNews/~3/JGwh5pFfijk/story01.htm
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="5"><p><span class="articleLocatio&lt;/span&gt;n">Twitter Inc (<span id="symbol_TWTR.N_0">TWTR.N</span>) is being sued by the widow of an American killed in Jordan who accuses the social media company of giving a voice to Islamic State, adding to the pressure to crack down on online propaganda linked to terrorism.</span></p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>Tamara Fields, a Florida woman whose husband Lloyd died in the Nov. 9 attack on the police training center in Amman, said Twitter knowingly let the militant Islamist group use its network to spread propaganda, raise money and attract recruits.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>Lawyers specializing in terrorism said Fields faces an uphill battle, though the case could lead to more calls for social media companies such as Twitter and Facebook Inc (<span id="symbol_FB.O_1">FB.O</span>) to take down posts associated with terrorist groups.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>In her complaint filed on Wednesday, Fields said San Francisco-based Twitter had until recently given Islamic State, also known as ISIS, an "unfettered" ability to maintain official Twitter accounts.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>"Without Twitter, the explosive growth of ISIS over the last few years into the most-feared terrorist group in the world would not have been possible," according to the complaint, which was filed in the federal court in Oakland, California.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Fields wants Twitter to pay her triple damages for violating the federal Anti-Terrorism Act by having provided material support to terrorists.    </p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>Her lawyer said he believes it is the first case in which a social media company is accused of violating that law.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>"While we believe the lawsuit is without merit, we are deeply saddened to hear of this family's terrible loss," Twitter said in a statement about the civil lawsuit. "Violent threats and the promotion of terrorism deserve no place on Twitter and, like other social networks, our rules make that clear."</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>PRESSURE ON SILICON VALLEY</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>Last Friday, the Obama administration set up a task force to crack down on extremist groups using the Internet to advance their goals, find recruits and plan attacks such as recent killings in Paris and San Bernardino, California.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>Senior national security officials also met with technology executives in Silicon Valley last week to discuss what more could be done to counter Islamist militants.      </p><span id="midArticle_12"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>"Social media plays an important role in allowing ISIS to recruit foreign fighters," said Jimmy Gurule, a University of Notre Dame law professor and former U.S. Treasury Department official specializing in terrorist financing.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>"But at the end of the day, is there a sufficient nexus between ISIS' use of Twitter and acts of terror?" he continued. "I'm not saying you can't show it but it's a real challenge."</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>Lloyd "Carl" Fields was among five people killed in the "lone wolf" attack at the police training center by Jordanian police officer Anwar Abu Zeid.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>The government contractor, who had been a police officer for a decade, was in Jordan to train police from that country, Iraq and the Palestinian territories.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>David Greene, civil liberties director of the Electronic Frontier Foundation digital rights group, said the Fields case plows new legal ground under the anti-terrorism law.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>"With this, the claim is not that you are reaching out or doing something special" for an entity identified as a terrorist group, he said. "This is that they (Twitter) need to stop providing (Islamic State) with the same service they provide the rest of the world."</p><span id="midArticle_2"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>Joshua Arisohn, a partner at Bursor &amp; Fisher representing Tamara Fields, said his client can prevail by showing that Twitter's activity was a substantial factor in her late husband's death, and that the death could have been foreseen.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>"Given the significant support that Twitter has knowingly provided to ISIS over the years, we're confident that we can meet this standard," Arisohn said in an email.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>Fields said Twitter aided Islamic State "knowingly or with willful blindness," citing the company's alleged resistance to requests from Congress, Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton and others to do more to keep the group offline.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>TAKEDOWNS</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>Islamic State, which controls large areas of Iraq and Syria, has used the Internet regularly to spread its message.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>The Brookings Institution think tank has estimated that Islamic State supporters operated at least 46,000 Twitter accounts between September and December 2014.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>Social media companies are not uniform in handling requests from authorities to take down online material. Some technology executives worry that being too quick to remove suspect posts could invite endless and often meritless demands for takedowns.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>Twitter has positioned itself as a defender of free speech, and been reluctant to censor. </p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>According to its online "transparency report," Twitter honored none of the 25 requests from U.S. government and law enforcement authorities to remove posts between January and June 2015.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>Twitter said it honored 42 percent of the 1,003 removal requests from governments, law enforcement and courts worldwide during that period, and withheld 158 accounts and 2,354 tweets. It said more than two-thirds of the requests came from Turkey.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>In December, Twitter updated its policies for policing content to explicitly prohibit "hateful conduct."     </p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>Gary Osen, a lawyer who in 2014 convinced a Brooklyn, New York jury to hold Jordan's Arab Bank Plc ARBK.AM liable for handling transactions for Palestinian militant group Hamas, said there is "no question" the Anti-Terrorism Act covers Fields' case, but showing "knowledge or willful blindness" may be tough.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>Arab Bank settled its case in August.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>The case is Fields v. Twitter Inc, U.S. District Court, Northern District of California, No. 16-00213.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><span id="midArticle_2"/><p> (Additional reporting by <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=dena.aubin&amp;">Dena Aubin</a>, <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=josephmenn&amp;">Joseph Menn</a> and Jonathan Weber; Editing by Meredith Mazzilli, <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=alistairbell&amp;">Alistair Bell</a> and Noeleen Walder)</p><span id="midArticle_3"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/technologyNews/~3/JGwh5pFfijk/story01.htm">Source </a>