---
ID: 4794
post_title: 'The Latest: Pelosi hopes Sanders endorses Clinton soon &#8211; Washington Post'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-06-22 20:51:09
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/the-latest-pelosi-hopes-sanders-endorses-clinton-soon-washington-post/
published: true
original_cats:
  - Top Stories
original_title:
  - 'The Latest: Pelosi hopes Sanders endorses Clinton soon - Washington Post'
original_link:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNGj5iPTj6Jyg4Ckn83C7_GNvSnAOw&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779137540578&#038;ei=5vlqV-D9H4SPhAHX57aQAg&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/the-latest-clinton-giving-ambitious-new-goals-on-economy/2016/06/22/1f1bbe3a-3866-11e6-af02-1df55f0c77ff_story.html'
canonical_url:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNGj5iPTj6Jyg4Ckn83C7_GNvSnAOw&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779137540578&#038;ei=5vlqV-D9H4SPhAHX57aQAg&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/the-latest-clinton-giving-ambitious-new-goals-on-economy/2016/06/22/1f1bbe3a-3866-11e6-af02-1df55f0c77ff_story.html'
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id=""><p>WASHINGTON — The Latest on the U.S. presidential campaign. (all times EDT):</p> <p>4:15 p.m.</p> <p>House Democratic leader Nancy Pelosi says she hopes Bernie Sanders endorses Hillary Clinton before the national convention in July.</p> <p>Speaking to reporters Wednesday, Pelosi says the Vermont senator “knows what’s at stake” in November. “Two words: Donald Trump,” she said.</p> <p>Sanders said in a C-SPAN interview that he won’t be the nominee, but he hasn’t officially bowed out and endorsed Clinton, the presumptive nominee after her primary wins earlier this month.</p> <p>___</p> <p>3:20 p.m.</p> <p>Hillary Clinton says Donald Trump is going after her personally because he doesn’t have any answers on the substance of the campaign.</p> <p>Clinton says at a rally in Raleigh, North Carolina, that Trump is pedaling “outlandish lies” and is trying to “distract us.” She says, “That’s why he’s attacking my faith. Sigh.”</p> <p>Clinton says he is attacking “a philanthropic foundation” that saves and improves lives around the world while his business products rely on poor people around the globe.</p> <p>She says the nation can’t allow Trump to “bankrupt America” the way he “bankrupted his casinos.” Clinton says the nation needs to “write a new chapter in the American dream and it can’t be Chapter 11,” a reference to Trump’s use of the bankruptcy laws in the past.</p> <p>___</p> <p>2:49 p.m.</p> <p>Hillary Clinton is outlining her plans for the U.S. economy in an address to supporters in Raleigh, North Carolina, hours after Donald Trump questioned her credentials to be president.</p> <p>Clinton says the nation needs better-paying jobs, debt-free college, steps to allow companies to share their profits with workers, ensuring Wall Street and corporations pay their fair share in taxes and policies to help families.</p> <p>Clinton says the nation needs to “make sure that our economy works for everyone, not just for the rich or the well-connected.”</p> <p>The former secretary of state says she is offering an alternative to Trump, whom she says is spouting “reckless ideas that will run up our debt and cause another economic crash.”</p> <p>___</p> <p>2:35 p.m.</p> <p>Hillary Clinton is invoking her religion a day after Donald Trump questioned it.</p> <p>The presumptive presidential nominee told supporters in Raleigh, N.C., that, “As we Methodists like to say: do all the good you can for all the people you can in all the ways you can.” That’s a quote credited to John Wesley, the founder of Methodism.</p> <p>Clinton was campaigning in North Carolina after Trump’s scathing critique of her foreign policy record and her qualifications to be president.</p> <p>According to video of the closed-door speech, Trump told evangelicals in New York that the public doesn’t know “anything about Hillary in terms of religion.”</p> <p>___</p> <p>2:14 p.m.</p> <p>Vermont Sen. Bernie Sanders is all but acknowledging that Hillary Clinton will be the Democratic nominee.</p> <p>Sanders tells C-SPAN, “It doesn’t appear that I’m going be the nominee.” But he is urging Clinton to pick a running mate who he considers to be liberal. He says it would be a “terrible mistake for her to go to a candidate who has roots in Wall Street or has been backed by Wall Street.”</p> <p>The senator says he expects to speak at the Democratic National Convention in Philadelphia. He says his campaign is trying to create the “most progressive platform” and change the party’s use of “superdelegates” who help determine the nominee.</p> <p>___</p> <p>12:40 p.m.</p> <p>A top Republican official says he is worried that some party leaders may help rebellious delegates who are hoping to derail Donald Trump’s presidential nomination at next month’s GOP national convention.</p> <p>Bruce Ash is one of Arizona’s three members of the 168-member Republican National Committee, and an expert on party rules.</p> <p>In a letter he’s distributed to other GOP leaders, Ash says he’s worried that some party officials who will head the convention’s rules committee “might possibly work to deny” Trump the nomination “he has earned.” The letter was obtained by The Associated Press.</p> <p>Some conservative delegates have begun a long-shot effort to block Trump’s nomination. They want to change the party’s rules and let delegates vote for whichever candidate they want.</p> <p>Ash writes that party leaders “must stand by our presumptive nominee’s side and defend against all who would threaten our legitimacy as a national party.”</p> <p>___</p> <p>12:25</p> <p>Curious about what a two-woman presidential ticket might look like?</p> <p>Democrats Hillary Clinton and Sen. Elizabeth Warren are offering a glimpse at a campaign event Monday in battleground Ohio.</p> <p>Warren is on Clinton’s shortlist of prospective running mates. The Massachusetts senator is a favorite of progressives and has emerged as a ferocious critic of presumed Republican nominee Donald Trump. Clinton said Wednesday that the pair will discuss “an economy that works for everyone, not just those at the top” at the Cincinnati event.</p> <p>___</p> <p>12:10 p.m.</p> <p>Xavier Becerra, a Democratic leader in the House, says he is not currently being vetted as a potential running mate for Hillary Clinton.</p> <p> “I really don’t have knowledge,” Becerra, of California, said before acknowledging that he has not been notified by the campaign that he is under consideration.</p> <p>Other potential contenders, including Massachusetts Sen. Elizabeth Warren, Virginia Sen. Tim Kaine and Housing and Urban Development Secretary Julian Castro have been informed that Clinton has begun vetting them for the role.</p> <p>His colleagues ribbed him for pouring Clinton a glass of water at a meeting with House Democrats on Capitol Hill on Wednesday.</p> <p> “It was a thing of beauty,” joked Joe Crowley, D-N.Y., who shouted, “you’re really working it,” in the meeting.</p> <p>South Carolina Rep. Jim Clyburn added: “He absolutely a stand-up kind of guy. If he’s not being vetted, I hope he will be.”</p> <p>___</p> <p>11:30 a.m.</p> <p>Donald Trump says he would “appoint judges who uphold the Constitution,” reform the nation’s immigration policies and repeal the Affordable Care Act in the first 100 days of his administration.</p> <p>He also said he would toughen the nation’s trade policies, lift restrictions on energy productions and overhaul the nation’s tax code.</p> <p>And in a swipe at Democratic opponent Hillary Clinton, he says he would “impose tough new ethics rules to restore dignity to the office of the secretary of state.”</p> <p>Trump’s speech Wednesday at a hotel he owns in Manhattan was largely a wide-ranging attack on Clinton, the presumptive Democratic nominee.</p> <p>As part of it, he read a letter from a woman whose son was killed by an illegal immigrant who says Clinton “needs to go to prison to pay for the crimes she has already committed against this country.”</p> <p>___</p> <p>11:25 a.m.</p> <p>House Democratic leaders are making a show of unity in their support for Hillary Clinton after the presumptive presidential nominee met with them on Capitol Hill.</p> <p>They were drawing a comparison with the lukewarm support Donald Trump has received from top Republican lawmakers.</p> <p> “You saw the stark contrast: unity vs. disorganization, lack of confidence in the other party in their leader,” said Steny Hoyer, the No. 2 Democrat in the House.</p> <p>Another congressman, Jim McDermott of Washington, said Clinton talked about the importance of winning not just the White House, but elections for the House and Senate.</p> <p>He said Clinton told lawmakers: “I know the difference between having the House and not having the House, and I want the House.”</p> <p>Democrats face an uphill battle to retake the House, with better prospects for capturing the Senate.</p> <p>___</p> <p>11:10 a.m.</p> <p>Donald Trump says, “no secretary of state has been more wrong, more often, and in more places than Hillary Clinton.”</p> <p>Trump is slamming Clinton during a speech in New York, saying the decisions made by his general election foe at the State Department “spread death, destruction and terrorism everywhere she touched.”</p> <p>In particular, Trump blamed the death of four Americans at a U.S. facility in Benghazi, Libya, on Clinton. Among those who died was U.S. Ambassador Chris Stevens.</p> <p>Trump says Clinton “slept soundly in her bed” while Stevens was killed.</p> <p>A Senate investigation later found that Stevens had asked for more security, which went unheeded. But he also twice declined the U.S. military’s offer of a special operations team to bolster security and otherwise help his staff.</p> <p>The month after the fatal assault, Clinton said she had been responsible for the safety of those serving in Benghazi, but did not acknowledging any specific mistakes on her part.</p> <p>President Barack Obama also said the blame ultimately rested on his shoulders as president.</p> <p>___</p> <p>10:55 a.m.</p> <p>Donald Trump says Hillary Clinton is “a world-class liar.”</p> <p>In a speech he’s delivering Wednesday in New York, the presumptive Republican presidential nominee criticized what he called several lies made by his general election opponent.</p> <p>Among them: Trump says Clinton misrepresenting the danger she faced during an airport arrival in Bosnia, which she said happened in a combat zone.</p> <p>Trump also slammed Clinton and her husband for using their public sector influence to enrich themselves.</p> <p>He said Clinton spent “her entire life” raising money for special interests and has “taken plenty of money out for herself.”</p> <p>___</p> <p>This story has been corrected to note that Trump questioned Clinton’s religion on Tuesday.</p> <p>Copyright 2016 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.</p> </div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNGj5iPTj6Jyg4Ckn83C7_GNvSnAOw&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779137540578&#038;ei=5vlqV-D9H4SPhAHX57aQAg&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/politics/the-latest-clinton-giving-ambitious-new-goals-on-economy/2016/06/22/1f1bbe3a-3866-11e6-af02-1df55f0c77ff_story.html">Source </a>