---
ID: 1870
post_title: >
  Russian warplanes leave Syria, raising
  U.N. hopes for peace talks
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-03-15 19:56:07
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/russian-warplanes-leave-syria-raising-u-n-hopes-for-peace-talks/
published: true
original_cats:
  - topNews
original_title:
  - >
    Russian warplanes leave Syria, raising
    U.N. hopes for peace talks
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/NWhhq49Tap0/story01.htm
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/NWhhq49Tap0/story01.htm
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="5"><p><span class="articleLocation">MOSCOW/BEIRUT/GENEVA</span> Russian warplanes flew home from Syria on Tuesday as Moscow started to withdraw forces that have tipped the war President Bashar al-Assad's way, and the U.N. envoy said he hoped the move would help peace talks in Geneva.</p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>As the first aircraft touched down in Russia, U.N. envoy Staffan de Mistura called President Vladimir Putin's surprise move a "significant development" toward resolving a crisis which this week passes its fifth anniversary.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>While Assad's opponents hope Putin's announcement on Monday that most Russian forces would be withdrawn signaled a shift in his support, its full significance is not yet clear: Russia is keeping an air base and an undeclared number of forces in Syria. </p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>Russian jets were in action against Islamic State on Tuesday. Assad also still enjoys military backing from Iran, which has sent forces to Syria along with Lebanon's Hezbollah.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>Russia said last month Assad was out of step with its diplomacy, prompting speculation Putin is pushing him to be more flexible at the Geneva talks, where his government has ruled out discussion of the presidency or a negotiated transfer of power.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Damascus has dismissed any talk of differences with its ally and says the planned withdrawal was coordinated and the result of army gains on the ground.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>British Foreign Secretary Philip Hammond, whose government supports the opposition, indicated the gaps in Western understanding of Putin, saying he had "no insight at all into Russia's strategy" after a decision that came out of the blue. </p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>The West had been equally surprised by Putin's decision to intervene. "Unfortunately none of us knows what the intent of Mr Putin is when he carries out any action, which is why he is a very difficult partner in any situation like this," he said.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Analysts in Moscow said Putin's acquisition of a seat at the diplomatic top table may have motivated his move to scale back his costly Syria campaign.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><span id="midArticle_10"/><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>"MOMENT OF TRUTH"</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>Russia appeared to be following through on its pledge, the U.S. White House said, but spokesman Josh Earnest said it was too early to assess the broader implications, adding Moscow did not give the United States direct notice of its withdrawal plan.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry welcomed Putin's announcement and said he planned to visit Moscow next week for what he called the best opportunity in years to end the war.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>The Geneva talks are part of a diplomatic push launched with U.S.-Russian support to end a conflict that has killed more than 250,000 people, created the world's worst refugee crisis, and allowed for the rise of Islamic State. Opening the indirect talks, de Mistura said Syria faced a "moment of truth".</p><span id="midArticle_15"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>The opposition, which was due to meet de Mistura on Tuesday, said it was not against a direct meeting with the government.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>U.S.-Russian cooperation had already brought about a lull in the war via a "cessation of hostilities agreement" that led to a sharp decline in fighting between rebels and the government in western Syria, though many violations have been reported.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>The Syrian government, which had been losing ground to rebels before Russia intervened, had indicated it was in no mood to give ground to the opposition on the eve of the talks that started on Monday, calling the presidency a "red line".</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>A peace process for Syria endorsed by the U.N. Security Council in December calls for a Syrian-led process that establishes "credible, inclusive and non-sectarian governance", a new constitution, and free, fair elections within 18 months.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>The main opposition delegation wants Assad out of power by the start of a transition. While some rebels have expressed guarded optimism at Putin's announcement, others doubt he is about to put serious pressure on Assad.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>"We do not trust them," said Fadi Ahmad of the First Coastal Division, who says his rebel group has been fighting a Russian-backed government offensive near the Turkish border throughout the cessation agreement that came into effect on Feb. 27.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Russian television showed the first group of Russia’s Su-34 fighter plane task force returning from Syria and landing at an air base in southern Russia. </p><span id="midArticle_6"/><span id="midArticle_7"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>PILOTS WELCOMED, RUSSIAN JETS STAGE STRIKES</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>The pilots were greeted by between 200 to 300 servicemen, journalists, and their wives and daughters, waving Russian flags, balloons in red white and blue, and flowers. Two priests also attended the event, parading a religious icon.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>They were mobbed and thrown in the air by the crowd. A brass band played Soviet military songs and Russia's national anthem.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>Their air campaign has mostly targeted insurgents battling Assad in western Syria, helping Damascus and allies including  Hezbollah and Iranian Revolutionary Guards to reclaim important ground near the borders with Turkey and Jordan.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>According to Russian Defence Minister Sergei Shoigu, Russia in the course of the operation flew more than 9,000 sorties. Military officials say they destroyed arms dumps, weapons, and fuel supplies being used by what they designated “terrorists”.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>The Syrian Organisation for Human Rights, which reports on the war using sources on the ground, says Russian air strikes have killed more than 1,700 civilians. Moscow denies that.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>Russia's military role has also expanded since September to include participation in the planning of military operations.  </p><span id="midArticle_14"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>Showing Russian warplanes were still active in Syria, heavy Russian air support was reported to help the Syrian army make major gains against Islamic State near the ancient city of Palmyra. IS is not included in the cessation of hostilities.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>Assad adviser Bouthaina Shaaban, meanwhile, said the Russian move was a "natural development of halt to combat operations".       </p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>The main opposition alliance, which says the government's rejection of a transition sought to halt the talks before they started, said it hoped Russia's move could lead to an end to the war, but wanted to see change on the ground.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>"MESSAGE TO ASSAD"</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>Putin and U.S. President Barack Obama spoke by telephone on Monday about Syria, with the Kremlin saying the two "called for an intensification of the process for a political settlement".</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>Putin said Russia had largely fulfilled its objectives in a campaign which has so far cost Russia $700-$800 million according to a Reuters estimate, an additional financial burden for Moscow at a time of low oil prices.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Russia, which has haunting memories of its decade-long war in Afghanistan, said it would be keeping its most advanced air defense system, the S-400, in Syria.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>A Western diplomat said Putin would "now move to focus on the peace talks and this will put pressure on the Syrian government to negotiate". The diplomat added: "We don’t know if he is giving up on Assad but we know that the Russians are delivering a message to Assad that they are keen on negotiations over transition to proceed."       </p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>On the question of Assad, Moscow has said it is up to the Syrian people, not outside powers, to decide. Even Assad's enemies in the West have moved away from the demand he leave power right away. </p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Both Moscow and Tehran have an interest in his survival as a guarantor of both their interests.   </p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>Syrian opposition figure Maan Abdul Salam said: "I don't think Russia is giving up on Assad yet. It is changing its tactics and the opposition needs to be ready for all possibilities."</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>Senior Iranian official Ali Larijani said after talks in Tehran with a Syrian delegation that his country would keep up its support for the government in its "confrontation with terrorism", the Syrian state news agency SANA reported.    </p><span id="midArticle_11"/><span id="midArticle_12"/><p> (Additional reporting by Tom Perry, Dominic Evans, Stephanie Nebehay, Suleiman al-Khalidi and Samia Nakhoul, Tom Miles, William James, Jason Bush, Jack Stubbs; Writing by Tom Perry and Philippa Fletcher, editing by Peter Millership)</p><span id="midArticle_13"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/NWhhq49Tap0/story01.htm">Source </a>