---
ID: 4345
post_title: >
  Sovereign wealth funds throw funding
  lifeline to tech ventures
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-06-07 16:46:14
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/sovereign-wealth-funds-throw-funding-lifeline-to-tech-ventures/
published: true
original_cats:
  - technologyNews
original_title:
  - >
    Sovereign wealth funds throw funding
    lifeline to tech ventures
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/technologyNews/~3/kefAF9J_Cwk/us-wealthfunds-tech-idUSKCN0YT1OC
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/technologyNews/~3/kefAF9J_Cwk/us-wealthfunds-tech-idUSKCN0YT1OC
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="4"><p><span class="articleLocation">FRANKFURT/SINGAPORE</span> A succession of funding deals by deep-pocketed sovereign wealth funds have thrown a life preserver to some of the world’s biggest private tech firms whose high valuations have come under scrutiny in the past year.</p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>Saudi Arabia and other Gulf States along with state-backed investors in Singapore and China have ploughed money into hot tech investments such as ride-sharing company Uber [UBER.UL] and Chinese Internet giant Alibaba and its private affiliates. </p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>With overall funding for start-ups slowing down by a third to $25.5 billion in the last two quarters, according to data from CB Insights, high-profile ventures are turning to government funds or institutional money to create "private IPOs" rather than to venture capitalists or chancing public listings. </p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>These capital injections have helped to keep valuations high as other tech ventures such as those of cloud storage service Dropbox or Indian takeaway food ordering app Zomato have been marked down by some earlier backers.  </p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>"Sovereign wealth funds are well placed to make large bets... given their deep access to capital and their risk appetite for growth investments," said Jacqueline Chan, a Singapore-based partner at law firm Milbank, who has advised sovereign wealth funds.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Saudi Arabia's Public Investment Fund said last week it invested $3.5 billion in Uber, Silicon Valley's most highly valued private company. At $62.5 billion, the car-sharing firm is worth more than the stock market capitalizations of automakers BMW or GM and close to VW, Daimler and Ford.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>Also last week, Singapore's two big government investors bought $1 billion of Alibaba Group shares, while in April, China Investment Corp, took part in a $4.5 billion round in Alibaba's financial services affiliate ANT Financial with other investors, marking the largest ever funding round in a fintech firm.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>FUNDRAISING ARMS RACE </p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>Technology stakes still make up only a tiny fraction of investment portfolios for sovereigns, with most sticking with conventional fixed income and equity investments and long-term projects like hotels, shopping centers and ports.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>And only about 10 of the world's 80 or more sovereign funds have made sizeable investments in tech ventures so far according to market research firm Sovereign Wealth Fund Institute.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>"It becomes a waste of time to write small cheques for funds of this scale," SWF Institute president Michael Maduell said.  </p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>But the pace of sovereign investment in tech ventures is picking up with more than two dozen in the past year.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>Singapore state fund Temasek has invested in more tech ventures than all other sovereign funds combined - more than 70 dating back to the dot-com era.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>Temasek has backed Airbnb, Chinese Uber rival Didi Chuxing, and China Internet Plus Group, the country's largest online group buying site, as well as Alibaba.(<a href="http://reut.rs/1stwUvu">reut.rs/1stwUvu</a>)</p><span id="midArticle_15"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>“New, disruptive, technologies and platforms are very much part of our investment focus," Temasek spokesman Stephen Forshaw said.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>The new sovereign investments have had an outsized impact on the private market for new companies, long dominated by venture capitalists in Silicon Valley and Israel and more recently, in China, India and Europe. </p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>Top venture capital firms such as Accel, Peter Thiel's Founders Fund, Andreesen Horowitz, Sequoia Capital, Index Ventures have responded by raising big new funds to stay in the game by focusing on earlier, riskier stages of funding than sovereign funds are ever likely to do due to their size.   </p><span id="midArticle_2"/><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>INFLUENTIAL </p><span id="midArticle_4"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>Singapore's other big sovereign investor GIC manages central bank reserves and has traditionally invested with private equity firms, but lately has been going alone on private equity-type tech investments such as U.S. payments provider Square (<span id="symbol_SQ.N_0">SQ.N</span>), a year ahead of its late 2015 IPO.    "Technology is a very important part of our investment universe, and will be increasingly so," said Lim Chow Kiat, GIC's deputy president and group chief investment officer. "It’s critical for GIC to stay involved as all these changes are producing big opportunities as well as risks.”</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Sovereign funds in oil-rich Gulf states have also begun to take positions in tech ventures, breaking with a prior focus on real estate deals.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>Saudi Arabia's $3.5 billion stake in Uber was the largest ever single private investment in a tech company while the Kuwait Investment Authority took the lead this year in a $165 million private equity funding for struggling U.S. wearable devices maker Jawbone, one of seven tech and healthcare ventures it has made in the last two years. Qatar Investment Authority invested in Uber and Indian ecommerce firm Flipkart in 2014.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>"While sovereign wealth funds are not going to be in every tech deal, they are starting to exert their influence," Maduell said. "They have definitely begun to get their hands dirty."</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Nevertheless, tech ventures are still too risky for some sovereign funds, with mandates to preserve capital and ensure predictable returns.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>Norway’s $865-billion fund, the world’s largest sovereign wealth investor, is a major backer of publicly traded tech stocks such as Apple Inc (<span id="symbol_AAPL.O_1">AAPL.O</span>), but it can only invest in an unlisted company in the final run up to a public offering.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>Restrictions on private investments mean it passed on an offer from Facebook (<span id="symbol_FB.O_2">FB.O</span>) to invest several years ago.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>”Facebook made contact and asked us whether we wanted to be a shareholder. We said no,” the fund's CEO, Yngve Slyngstad, told Norwegian daily VG a week ago.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><span id="midArticle_13"/><p> (Additional reporting by Gwladys Fouche in Oslo; editing by Anna Willard)</p><span id="midArticle_14"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/technologyNews/~3/kefAF9J_Cwk/us-wealthfunds-tech-idUSKCN0YT1OC">Source </a>