---
ID: 1908
post_title: 'Adam LaRoche leaving after White Sox sought to limit son&#039;s clubhouse time &#8211; Chicago Tribune'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-03-17 01:31:06
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/adam-laroche-leaving-after-white-sox-sought-to-limit-sons-clubhouse-time-chicago-tribune/
published: true
original_cats:
  - Top Stories
original_title:
  - 'Adam LaRoche leaving after White Sox sought to limit son&#039;s clubhouse time - Chicago Tribune'
original_link:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNGfXB54JXFJ74hvSAFq_R6TVQwjDQ&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779063637059&#038;ei=2QjqVpDTKJKKhQHsu7HACw&#038;url=http://www.chicagotribune.com/sports/baseball/whitesox/ct-adam-laroche-drake-clubhouse-20160316-story.html'
canonical_url:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNGfXB54JXFJ74hvSAFq_R6TVQwjDQ&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779063637059&#038;ei=2QjqVpDTKJKKhQHsu7HACw&#038;url=http://www.chicagotribune.com/sports/baseball/whitesox/ct-adam-laroche-drake-clubhouse-20160316-story.html'
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div data-role="pagination_page" data-content-page="1" readability="145.51567184519">
                          
      
      <p>Adam LaRoche walked into the <a title="Chicago White Sox" href="http://www.chicagotribune.com/sports/baseball/whitesox/">White Sox</a> clubhouse many times over the last year with his teenage son, who became a fixture with the team. He even had his own locker.</p><p>LaRoche now likely will walk away from baseball because of the club's decision that he limit his son's clubhouse presence.</p>
  <p>Sox executive vice president Ken Williams said Wednesday that's why LaRoche, 36, announced his plans to leave the Sox and forego the $13 million left on his contract for this season.</p><aside class="trb_embed" data-content-id="86244512" data-content-size="small" data-content-type="story" data-content-slug="ct-adam-laroche-white-sox-haugh-spt-0317-20160316" data-content-subtype="column" data-role="socialshare_item  imgsize_ratiosizecontainer " data-state=""/><p>The news triggered a lively conversation about the propriety of children in sports locker rooms as well as how much is too much when it comes to taking your children to work.</p><span class="trb_ar_cont" data-ar-cont="Article continues below"/>
    <p>Williams, who said he believes the Sox to be a "kid-friendly environment," said the LaRoche arrangement was excessive.</p><p>Drake, 14, was with the team for many games and much of this spring, shagging balls during batting practice and chatting up players during downtime. That included Tuesday, when he wandered outside the clubhouse while Sox players discussed the issue in a nearly two-hour meeting.</p><p>Williams said he decided he needed to draw the line somewhere, as many players might have similar requests, and the club needed to focus completely on winning. He said he likely still would have made the initial decision even in light of the result because of that reason.</p><span class="trb_ar_cont" data-ar-cont="Article continues below"/>
<aside class="trb_embed " data-content-embedlocation="Embed + (2)" data-content-id="86243180" data-content-size="large" data-content-type="video" data-content-slug="ct-white-sox-ken-williams-video-spt-20160316" data-content-subtype="premiumvideo" data-role="socialshare_item  mediamanager_container  imgsize_ratiosizecontainer lightbox_container  " data-state="" data-embed-id="86243180"/><p>"Even 50 percent (of the time) is probably too much, but there's a wide range between 0-50 percent, so I was a little surprised by the stance he took, which is unfortunate," Williams said. "But talk about a quality life decision, a family decision. He talks about being there for his family, and he put it front and center. I respect and admire that."</p><p>Williams spoke with LaRoche first about the issue a week ago and again Sunday, and he said LaRoche did not try to negotiate the issue. LaRoche was not at Camelback Ranch on Wednesday but said Tuesday he planned to speak on his potential retirement in a couple of days after he honored his teammates' request to reconsider.</p><p>Williams said the decision wasn't because LaRoche's son was a distraction in the clubhouse and said player complaints about it being one weren't "really prevalent." But Williams did note that major-league players in a private environment can be both good and bad influences on children.</p><p>Sox manager Robin Ventura praised Drake's maturity several times since he approved the original arrangement last season. Center fielder Adam Eaton said Drake often helped out cleaning cleats or picking up equipment.</p><aside class="trb_embed" data-content-size="small" data-content-type="blurb">
</aside><p>"It's not because the young man was a distraction, and not because he wasn't well received and well-liked by players, management and everyone else," Williams said. "He's a quality young kid."</p><p>Some Sox players fought for the LaRoche family in the team meeting, according to Eaton.</p><p>Williams said Sox Chairman Jerry Reinsdorf backed his stance. He said children still are allowed around the club, but their presence needs rules.</p><p>"Sometimes you have to make decisions in this world that are unpopular," Williams said. "I've been unpopular before."</p><p>Lindsay Pinchuk, founder of Chicago-based Bump Club and Beyond, a nationwide social networking group for parents, said the Sox management's stance reflects a common attitude toward children in workplaces today.</p><aside class="trb_embed" data-content-id="86236419" data-content-size="small" data-content-type="story" data-content-slug="ct-adam-laroche-white-sox-retiring-rosenbloom-20160316" data-content-subtype="column" data-role="socialshare_item  imgsize_ratiosizecontainer " data-state=""/><p>"Unfortunately, we live in a society where kids just aren't welcome in the workplace on a regular basis," Pinchuk said. "I think it has a lot to do with staying focused and being an appropriate environment for a child or a teenager."</p><p>Pinchuk added, however, that companies — such as the Sox — need to be explicit about their policies so as not to confuse employees or have to draw up rules after the fact.</p><p>"Obviously, this player really wanted to share this with his son who had a love for the game, and there clearly weren't guidelines," she said. "That's a shame."</p><p>LaRoche grew up around ballparks thanks to his father, Dave, a former major-league pitcher who was the Sox's bullpen coach when Ventura was a player. LaRoche, who also has a younger daughter, wanted his son to have a similar experience, and his wife, Jenn, helped to arrange Drake's schooling and baseball schedule.</p><p>LaRoche said last year that his son benefited from the time in the clubhouse, beyond just honing his baseball skills.</p><p>"It has helped with just life lessons in general, how to treat people, how to communicate," LaRoche said last summer. "He's pretty mature for his age.</p><p>"That's not due to anything I've done or Jenn has done. That's just growing up around the guys his whole life. You don't really have any choice but to learn and grow up pretty quick and have thick skin because obviously he's always getting riled around here. That's a good thing because nothing bothers him. He has heard it all from these guys."</p><p>Tom Gimbel, founder and CEO of the LaSalle Network, who speaks on corporate culture and workplace issues, said the controversy should not be viewed as a statement about workplace intolerance of families.</p><p>"There isn't another job in the world where you can bring your kid to work with you every day," Gimbel said. "This is very isolated."</p><p>Gimbel noted that Williams was within his rights as an employer to draw the line on employee behavior. He added he thinks LaRoche's decision to retire — not quit, or ask to be traded — indicated he was willing to end his career likely for other reasons as well.</p><p>LaRoche had injury and underperformance issues in his only year with the Sox.</p><p>"Great, he prioritizes his kids over his career. It's very admirable," Gimbel said. "But you can't ask your employer to prioritize your kid over the continuity of the workplace."</p><p><em>Chicago Tribune's Vikki Ortiz Healy contributed.</em></p><p><em><a href="mailto:ckane@tribpub.com">ckane@tribpub.com</a></em></p><p><em>Twitter @ChiTribKane</em></p><p>  </p></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNGfXB54JXFJ74hvSAFq_R6TVQwjDQ&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779063637059&#038;ei=2QjqVpDTKJKKhQHsu7HACw&#038;url=http://www.chicagotribune.com/sports/baseball/whitesox/ct-adam-laroche-drake-clubhouse-20160316-story.html">Source </a>