---
ID: 217
post_title: 'Search for 12 Marines from downed helicopters enters 3rd day &#8211; Tampabay.com'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-01-17 20:45:33
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/search-for-12-marines-from-downed-helicopters-enters-3rd-day-tampabay-com/
published: true
original_cats:
  - Top Stories
original_title:
  - 'Search for 12 Marines from downed helicopters enters 3rd day - Tampabay.com'
original_link:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNFy6iOUXBgk4bHEPKqpwpVQ7KYkjg&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779031384505&#038;ei=bP2bVpiYH4fkwAHY6auwDA&#038;url=http://home.tampabay.com/news/military/search-for-12-marines-from-downed-helicopters-enters-3rd-day/2261678'
canonical_url:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNFy6iOUXBgk4bHEPKqpwpVQ7KYkjg&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779031384505&#038;ei=bP2bVpiYH4fkwAHY6auwDA&#038;url=http://home.tampabay.com/news/military/search-for-12-marines-from-downed-helicopters-enters-3rd-day/2261678'
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div readability="102.2991202346"><p>HALEIWA, Hawaii — The ongoing search for 12 Marines who are missing after two helicopters crashed off Hawaii entered the third day with no plans Sunday morning to call off or suspend the massive effort, the Coast Guard said. </p>


<p>While high surf complicated the mission for rescuers on the water, a green laser off Haleiwa Beach Park on Saturday night struck a Coast Guard plane, forcing crew members to alter search patterns. </p>
<p>"It's a very, very dangerous thing," Coast Guard spokeswoman Tara Molle said of the laser, adding that it can be life-threatening for crews flying at night. </p>
<p>The crew of the HC-130 plane wasn't exposed and didn't have to land, but they changed their search pattern to avoid being hit again. </p>
<p>The Coast Guard reminded the public that targeting a laser at an aircraft is illegal and could result in fine of $11,000 per violation. </p>
<p>Rescuers have been searching round-the-clock since the Coast Guard was notified late Thursday of the crash by a civilian who saw the aircraft flying and then disappear and a fireball. </p>
<p>The Marines were alerted when the CH-53E helicopters carrying six crew members each failed to return to their base at Kaneohe Bay following a nighttime training mission. Hours later, a Coast Guard helicopter and C-130 airplane spotted debris 2½ miles off of Oahu. </p>
<p>The transport helicopters were part of the 1st Marine Aircraft Wing at Marine Corps Base Hawaii. Known as Super Stallions, they are the U.S. military's largest helicopter, capable of carrying a light armored vehicle, 16 tons of cargo or a team of combat-equipped Marines, according to a Marine Corps website. </p>
<p>The Coast Guard initially reported that the choppers had collided, but Marine Capt. Timothy Irish said Friday that he did not know if the accident was a collision. </p>
<p>A high surf warning for Oahu's north and west shores was extended until noon Sunday. Waves of up to 30 feet were expected to subside to advisory levels Sunday afternoon. </p>
<p>The crash was off the north shore, but the search area was expanded to include waters off Oahu's west coast on Saturday. </p>
<p>Rescuers will continue to search "as long as there's probable cause that they have something to find," Molle said. As of Sunday morning, there were no plans to call off or suspend the search, she said. </p>
<p>The U.S. Marines Corps released the names of the 12 missing crew members late Saturday. Though based in Hawaii, the Marines were from various states. </p>
<p>Some family members were holding out hope that survivors could be found, while asking for privacy as they waited for updates. </p>
<p>"My husband and I want everyone to know that this is not about us," Donna McGrew, mother of Maj. Shawn Campbell of College Station, Texas, said in a statement. "This is about the families that are suffering, and about all the sacrifices that our military members and their families make on a daily basis."</p></div><div readability="200"><h2>Details about 12 missing Marines</h2><p>HONOLULU — The U.S. Marine Corps has released the names of 12 Marines missing after two helicopters crashed off Hawaii. Here are their stories: </p><h3>CPL. THOMAS J. JARDAS, 22, FORT MYERS</h3> <p>Cpl. Thomas J. Jardas is the brother of the reigning Miss District of Columbia. Jardas is the younger brother of Haely Jardas, who represented the District in last year's Miss America pageant. The Miss D.C. Organization said in a statement that its thoughts and prayers are with Haely Jardas and her family. Miss D.C. executive director Tricia Lloyd says Haely Jardas flew home to Florida on Saturday to be with her family. The organization is asking that her privacy be respected. </p><h3>MAJ. SHAWN M. CAMPBELL, 41, COLLEGE STATION, TEXAS </h3><p>Maj. Shawn M. Campbell's mother, Donna McGrew, describes the father of four as a "great dad whose kids love him and he's wonderful husband." </p><p>Campbell attended high school in suburban Houston and then graduated from Texas A&amp;M University with a degree in microbiology. </p><p>In a family statement, McGrew said her son accepted a commission following his graduation and became a career Marine. She told the Houston Chronicle that Campbell served three tours in Middle East, the last in Iraq. He returned to the U.S. to be a flying instructor at Pensacola and had transferred to Hawaii about two years ago. </p><p>He and his wife, Kelli, and their children, have been living near the Marine base at Kaneohe Bay, Hawaii. </p><p>"My husband and I want everyone to know that this is not about us," McGrew said in the statement. "This is about the families that are suffering, and about all the sacrifices that our military members and their families make on a daily basis." </p><h3>CPL. MATTHEW R. DROWN, 23, SPRING, TEXAS. </h3><p>Matthew R. Drown joined the Marines shortly after graduating from a suburban Houston high school in 2011. </p><p>His family issued a statement asking for privacy to "deal with the very difficult situation," adding that they have to remain hopeful of his rescue for his sake and others on the downed aircraft. </p><p>Drown's former high school English teacher, Yvette Stuckey, told the <i>Houston Chronicle</i> she remembered Drown as a shy freshmen, but that he came out of his shell as he grew, eventually participating in debate tournaments. </p><p>His speech and debate teacher, Angie Richard, recalled him as "very happy, always smiling" and showing a confidence in public speaking "unusual among high school kids." </p><p>Stuckey said she was "shocked but so excited" when Drown told her his plans to enlist after graduation, adding that he was "really excited to follow and serve his country." </p><h3>SGT. DILLON J. SEMOLINA, 24, OF CHASKA, MINN. </h3><p>The uncle of Minnesota native Sgt. Dillon J. Semolina said the 24-year-old wants to be a Registered Nurse when he leaves the Marines. </p><p>"He was waiting to hear from a school he had applied to and was hoping to hear next week," said his uncle, Ryan Bachand. </p><p>Semolina is an impressive young man, respectful and positive, Bachand said. He had been a good football player at Delano, Minnesota, high school. </p><p>The family still holds out hope that he and others missing will be found alive, Bachand said. </p><p>But as hopes have dimmed, Bachand said he would cherish memories of spending time with Semolina when Bachand was a fishing guide in northern Minnesota. "I was able to teach him how to fish," he said. </p><p>A GoFundMe page to raise money to send Semolina's parents to Hawaii to be near where Semolina went missing had raised nearly $10,000 from 226 people by late Saturday. </p><h3>CPL. CHRISTOPHER ORLANDO, 23, OF HINGHAM, MASS.</h3><p>Orlando's family said in a statement released Saturday by the Massachusetts State Police that they are thankful to everyone for their love, concern and prayers. Orlando is a flight crew chief and a 2010 high school graduate from Hingham, outside Boston. His family said they are monitoring the search effort and are thankful for the hard work of search and rescue crews. </p><p>Before Orlando joined the Marines, he was a counselor at a surf camp in Hull, Massachusetts, and is a "camp legend," the South Shore Surf Camp said in a Facebook post. "He is mentally and physically strong with the ocean experience and skills needed to survive anything Mother Nature can throw at him." </p><h3>CAPT. KEVIN ROCHE, 30, OF ST. LOUIS </h3><p>The family of Capt. Kevin Roche, 30, praised rescuers for trying to find him and the other Marines aboard the helicopters. </p><p>"We believe the Marines and Coast Guard are doing everything they can to bring Kevin and his fellow Marines home safely, and we are grateful to everyone involved in the rescue," said a family statement distributed by brother-in-law Anthony Kuenzel in St. Louis. </p><p>LANCE CPL. TY L. HART, 21, OF AUMSVILLE, OREGON </p><p>The Oregonian newspaper reports that 21-year-old Ty Hart, from Stayton, Oregon, lives on base in Hawaii with his wife. </p><p>Family friend Christina Brown described Hart as upbeat and energetic and said he enjoys nature, boating and wakeboarding. </p><p>Hart's former high school football coach and teacher, Alan Kirby, told the newspaper that Hart was a positive kid who always had a smile on his face and called him a quick learner on the gridiron. </p><p>The official list of the missing Marines is: </p><p>• Maj. Shawn M. Campbell, 41, College Station, Texas. </p><p>• Capt. Brian T. Kennedy, 31, Philadelphia </p><p>• Capt. Kevin T. Roche, 30, St. Louis </p><p>• Capt. Steven R. Torbert, 29, Florence, Ala. </p><p>• Sgt. Dillon J. Semolina, 24,Chaska, Minn. </p><p>• Sgt. Adam C. Schoeller, 25, Gardners, Pa. </p><p>• Sgt. Jeffrey A. Sempler, 22, Woodruff, S.C. </p><p>• Sgt. William J. Turner, 25, Florala, Ala. </p><p>• Cpl. Matthew R. Drown, 23, Spring, Texas. </p><p>• Cpl. Thomas J. Jardas, 22, Fort Myers. </p><p>• Cpl. Christopher J. Orlando, 23, Hingham, Mass. </p><p>• Lance Cpl. Ty L. Hart, 21, Aumsville, Ore.</p></div><p>Search for 12 Marines from downed helicopters enters 3rd day 01/17/16
				<span title="2016-01-17T15:32:03Z" class="updated">
					[Last modified: Sunday, January 17, 2016 3:32pm]
				</span>
<br/><a href="http://www.tampabay.com/photosales/">Photo reprints</a> | <a href="http://www.tampabaytimesreprints.com">Article reprints</a>

</p>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNFy6iOUXBgk4bHEPKqpwpVQ7KYkjg&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779031384505&#038;ei=bP2bVpiYH4fkwAHY6auwDA&#038;url=http://home.tampabay.com/news/military/search-for-12-marines-from-downed-helicopters-enters-3rd-day/2261678">Source </a>