---
ID: 4008
post_title: 'Obama visits Hiroshima to ponder &#039;terrible force unleashed&#039;'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-05-27 10:05:05
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/obama-visits-hiroshima-to-ponder-terrible-force-unleashed/
published: true
original_cats:
  - topNews
original_title:
  - 'Obama visits Hiroshima to ponder &#039;terrible force unleashed&#039;'
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/36u7AvDJnE4/us-japan-obama-hiroshima-idUSKCN0YH2PQ
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/36u7AvDJnE4/us-japan-obama-hiroshima-idUSKCN0YH2PQ
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="6"><p><span class="articleLocation">HIROSHIMA, Japan</span> Barack Obama became the first incumbent U.S. president to visit Hiroshima on Friday, laying a wreath at the site of the world's first atomic bombing in a gesture Tokyo and Washington hope will showcase their alliance and invigorate efforts to end nuclear arms.</p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>Even before it occurred, though, the visit stirred debate,  with critics accusing both sides of having selective memories and pointing to paradoxes in policies relying on nuclear deterrence while calling for an end to atomic arms.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>The two governments hope Obama's tour of Hiroshima, where an atomic bomb killed thousands instantly on Aug. 6, 1945, and some 140,000 by the year's end, underscores a new level of reconciliation and tighter ties between the former enemies.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>"We come to ponder the terrible force unleashed in a not-so-distant past," Obama said after laying a wreathe at a peace memorial. "We come to mourn the dead."</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>Before laying the wreath at a peace memorial, Obama visited a museum where haunting displays include photographs of badly burned victims, the tattered and stained clothes they wore and statues depicting them with flesh melting from their limbs.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Aides had said Obama's main goal in Hiroshima was to showcase his nuclear disarmament agenda, for which he won the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>"We remember all the innocents killed in the arc of that terrible war," a solemn Obama said. </p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>"We have a shared responsibility to look directly in the eye of history. We must ask what we must do differently to curb such suffering again."</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Obama said earlier he would honor all who died in World War Two but would not apologize for the bombing. The city of Nagasaki was hit by a second nuclear bomb on Aug. 9, 1945, and Japan surrendered six days later.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>A majority of Americans see the bombings as having been necessary to end the war and save lives, although some historians question that view. Most Japanese believe they were unjustified.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>The White House had debated whether the time was right for Obama to break a decades-old taboo on presidential visits to Hiroshima, especially in an election year. </p><span id="midArticle_11"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>But Obama's aides defused most negative reaction from military veterans' groups by insisting he would not second-guess  the decision to drop the bombs.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>"I will not revisit the decision to use atomic weapons in Hiroshima and Nagasaki, but I will point out that Prime Minister (Shinzo) Abe and I coming to Hiroshima together shows the world the possibility of reconciliation - that even former adversaries can become the strongest of allies," Obama said in written responses to questions published in the Asahi newspaper on Friday.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><span id="midArticle_14"/><span id="midArticle_15"/><span id="midArticle_0"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>VICTIMS, PERPETRATORS</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>Atomic bomb survivors have said an apology from Obama would be welcome but for many, the priority is ridding the world of nuclear arms, a goal that seems as elusive as ever.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>Not all agree. "I want Obama to say 'I'm sorry'. If he does, maybe my suffering will ease," said Eiji Hattori, 73, a toddler at the time of the bombing who now has three types of cancer.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>"If Obama apologized, I could die and meet my parents in heaven in peace," he said at the peace park, from which ordinary citizens were later ejected amid tight security ahead of Obama's arrival. </p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>Earlier, protesters outside the peace park could be heard demanding an apology.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Five atomic bombing survivors and their families attended the ceremony.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>World War Two flying ace Dean “Diz” Laird, 95, who shot down Japanese fighters and dropped bombs on Tokyo, said he was pleased Obama was making the visit but glad he wasn't apologizing.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>"It’s bad that so many people got killed in Hiroshima, but it was a necessity to end the war sooner,” he said.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Critics argue that by not apologizing, Obama will allow Japan to stick to the narrative that paints it as a victim.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>Abe's government has affirmed past official apologies over the war but said future generations should not be burdened by the sins of their forebears.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>China and South Korea, which suffered from Japan's wartime aggression, often complain it has not atoned sufficiently.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>"It is worth focusing on Hiroshima, but it’s even more important that we should not forget Nanjing," Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi told reporters, according to the ministry's website. </p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>China says Japanese troops in 1937 killed 300,000 people in its then-capital of Nanjing. A postwar Allied tribunal put the death toll at 142,000, but some conservative Japanese politicians and scholars deny a massacre took place at all. </p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>"The victims deserve sympathy, but the perpetrators can never escape their responsibility," Wang said.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><span id="midArticle_15"/><p> (Additional reporting by Matt Spetalnick in Ise-Shima and Michael Martina in Beijing.; Writing by Linda Sieg; Editing by Paul Tait and Nick Macfie)</p><span id="midArticle_16"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/36u7AvDJnE4/us-japan-obama-hiroshima-idUSKCN0YH2PQ">Source </a>