---
ID: 4358
post_title: 'Clashes erupt after PNG police fire on protesters, several reported dead &#8211; Reuters'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-06-08 03:57:13
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/clashes-erupt-after-png-police-fire-on-protesters-several-reported-dead-reuters/
published: true
original_cats:
  - Top Stories
original_title:
  - 'Clashes erupt after PNG police fire on protesters, several reported dead - Reuters'
original_link:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNG9BsWesKHgoygJY2WHakGh4WATyg&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779128477083&#038;ei=mJdXV8iCIeiGwgGnroz4BQ&#038;url=http://in.reuters.com/article/papua-protests-idINKCN0YU04X'
canonical_url:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNG9BsWesKHgoygJY2WHakGh4WATyg&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779128477083&#038;ei=mJdXV8iCIeiGwgGnroz4BQ&#038;url=http://in.reuters.com/article/papua-protests-idINKCN0YU04X'
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="7"><p><span class="articleLocation">SYDNEY</span> Rioting, looting and gunshots erupted in the capital of Papua New Guinea on Wednesday after police opened fire on a student demonstration, wounding more than a dozen people and killing as many as four, officials and residents said.</p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>A groundswell of political unrest has surged in the island nation, just to Australia's north, in recent weeks amid calls for Prime Minister Peter O'Neill to resign over corruption allegations.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>People in Port Moresby reported police firing on the public and using tear gas to disperse crowds after a protest at the University of PNG's Waigani campus turned violent.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>"Now there is a very big clash with the public and with the police just outside the Port Moresby General Hospital," a hospital official told Reuters by telephone after a group of wounded students were taken there for treatment.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>"There is also shooting going on, open gunfire."</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Papua New Guinea, formerly administered by its near-neighbour Australia, struggles with endemic violence and poverty despite a wealth of mineral resources.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>The Australian government, which routinely warns of "high levels of serious crime" and a "general atmosphere of lawlessness", updated its travel advice to warn of an "unconfirmed number of deaths and serious injuries" and that unrest had spread to other cities, including Lae in the north.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>PEOPLE FLEEING</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>Hubert Namani, a lawyer and business leader, said public transport had been halted and people were fleeing the streets. </p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>"People are looting and rioting and sort of revolting, so the police are now caught trying to manage all of that," Namani told Reuters by phone from Port Moresby. </p><span id="midArticle_11"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>"All of the businesses are closing down, I've closed off my offices and sent everybody off for half the day."</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>Noel Anjo, one of the leaders of the student protest, said the violence began when students started a planned march from the campus towards the parliament building in the capital.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>Police set up a road block but the students refused to turn back, Anjo told Reuters.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>"We were determined to go to parliament," he said. "Police did not like that idea and started assaulting the students, punching them, hitting them with the gun butts, before firing shots at them."</p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>"The students were running for cover in all directions, but I saw some people badly wounded."</p><span id="midArticle_0"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>There was no immediate comment from police in Port Moresby.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>Richard Sanaka, a doctor in the emergency department at Port Moresby General Hospital, said there were 20 wounded students at the hospital, five in critical condition.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>A major aid agency, which declined to be identified because it only had preliminary information, said a clinic at the University of PNG's Waigani campus had reported at least 15 students were wounded, with four killed.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>TEAR GAS, GUNFIRE</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Video on social media appeared to show students fleeing amid clouds of tear gas and the sound of gunfire. Pictures showed several men with what appeared to be serious stomach, chest and leg wounds.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>Australian Foreign Minister Julie Bishop called for calm and said she was seeking further information.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>"I know students have been shot but we are still trying to determine whether there have been deaths, how many injured," Bishop told reporters. </p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Thousands of students at the University of PNG in Port Moresby have been protesting and boycotting classes for weeks amid growing political unrest.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>O'Neill has resisted calls to resign since he was implicated in a major corruption scandal two years ago that included alleged government mismanagement and questionable international dealings.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>The opposition made a fourth unsuccessful attempt this week to unseat O'Neill's government through a no confidence motion, gaining some support from members of his own party.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>Most of Papua New Guinea's seven million people live subsistence lives in isolated mountain villages and scattered tropical islands.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>A boom in energy production, including Exxon Mobil's (<span id="symbol_XOM.N_0">XOM.N</span>) $20 billion PNG LNG plant fuelled annual economic growth of close to 10 percent a year for the past three years.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>A spokesman for Newcrest Mining (<span id="symbol_NCM.AX_1">NCM.AX</span>), which operates two remote gold mines in PNG, said trouble had been "brewing for a while" but its operations had not been affected. There was no comment available immediately from Exxon Mobil in PNG.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><span id="midArticle_15"/><p> (Additional reporting by Jane Wardell, Jonathan Barrett and James Regan; Writing by Jane Wardell; Editing by Lincoln Feast and Paul Tait)</p><span id="midArticle_16"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNG9BsWesKHgoygJY2WHakGh4WATyg&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779128477083&#038;ei=mJdXV8iCIeiGwgGnroz4BQ&#038;url=http://in.reuters.com/article/papua-protests-idINKCN0YU04X">Source </a>