---
ID: 816
post_title: >
  Russian firepower helps Syrian forces
  edge toward Turkey border
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-02-08 16:44:22
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/russian-firepower-helps-syrian-forces-edge-toward-turkey-border/
published: true
original_cats:
  - topNews
original_title:
  - >
    Russian firepower helps Syrian forces
    edge toward Turkey border
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/RRHyaTZe3lY/story01.htm
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/RRHyaTZe3lY/story01.htm
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="5"><p><span class="articleLocation">BEIRUT/ONCUPINAR, Turkey</span> The Syrian army advanced toward the Turkish border on Monday in a major offensive backed by Russia and Iran that rebels say now threatens the future of their nearly five-year-old insurrection against President Bashar al-Assad.</p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>Iranian backed-militias played a key role on the ground as Russian jets intensified what rebels call a scorched earth policy that has allowed the military back into the strategic northern area for the first time in more than two years. </p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>"Our whole existence is now threatened, not just losing more ground," said Abdul Rahim al-Najdawi from Liwa al-Tawheed, an insurgent group.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>"They are advancing and we are pulling back because in the face of such heavy aerial bombing we must minimize our losses."</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>The Russian-backed Syrian government advance over recent days amounts to one of the biggest shifts in momentum of the war, helping to torpedo the first peace talks for two years, which collapsed last week before they had begun in earnest.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>The Syrian military and its allies were almost five km (3 miles) from the rebel-held town of Tal Rafaat, which has brought them to around 25 km (16 miles) from the Turkish border, the rebels, residents and a conflict monitor said.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>The assault around the city of Aleppo in northern Syria has prompted tens of thousands to flee toward Turkey, which is already sheltering more than 2.5 million Syrians, the world's largest refugee population.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>In the last two days escalating Russian bombardment of towns north west of Aleppo, Anadan and Haritan, brought several thousand more, according to a resident in the town of Azaz.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Aleppo, Syria's largest city before the war with 2 million people, has been divided for years into rebel and government-held sections.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>The government says it wants to take back full control of the city, which would make it the biggest prize yet in a war that has already killed at least 250,000 people and driven 11 million from their homes.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>Rebel-held areas in and around Aleppo are still home to 350,000 people, and aid workers have said they could soon fall to the government. Turkish President Tayyip Erdogan was quoted at the weekend as saying Turkey was under threat and Ankara has so far kept the border crossing there closed to most refugees.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>After around a week of heavy Russian air strikes, Syrian government troops and their allies broke through rebel defenses to reach two Shi'ite towns in northern Aleppo province on Wednesday, choking opposition supply lines from Turkey.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>German Chancellor Angela Merkel said she was "appalled" by the suffering of Aleppo, blaming bomb attacks primarily from the Russian side and suggesting they violated a U.N. Security Council resolution Moscow signed in December.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>SUPPLY LINE</p><span id="midArticle_15"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>The Syrian army's success in opening a route to the Shi'ite towns of Nubul and Zahraa enabled it to cut a main highway that linked rebel held areas in the northern countryside with the eastern part of Aleppo held by insurgents since 2012.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>The latest gains by the Syrian government brings it to the closest point to the Turkish border area since August 2013, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights said.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>The capture of the towns of Mayer and then Kafin, just north of Nubul and Zahraa, in the past 24 hrs have opened the road toward Tal Rifaat, the next focus of the army assault. The capture of that would leave only the town of Azaz before the Turkish border itself.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>The prospect of the loss of Azaz, just a few miles from the Bab al Salama border crossing, would virtually wipe out the insurgents from their main stronghold in northwest Syria. </p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>Russian bombing has for weeks targeted rebel routes to the main border crossing that was once a major gateway from Europe and Turkey to the Gulf and Iraq. Since it fell to insurgents, the crossing has been both a major commercial lifeline and arms supply route for rebel-held areas in Idlib and Aleppo provinces.    </p><span id="midArticle_4"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>The army's advance has also been indirectly helped by Kurdish-led YPG militias who control the city of Afrin, south west of Azaz. They have seized a string of villages including Ziyara and Khreiybeh in the last few days, rebels said. </p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>The Observatory also said the Kurds had secured the villages of Deir Jamal and Maranaz from Islamist insurgents.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>In a multi-sided civil war that has drawn in global and regional powers, the Kurds have emerged as the strongest allies on the ground in Syria of a U.S.-led coalition bombing Islamic State militants in eastern Syria and northern Iraq. But Turkey, which supports other rebel groups, is hostile to the Syrian Kurds, which it views as allies of its own Kurdish separatists.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>Russia joined the war last year with air strikes that it says are aimed at Islamic State, but which Turkey, Arab states and the West say are aimed mostly at other opponents of Assad.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Four months of Russian air strikes have tipped the momentum of the war Assad's way. With Moscow's help and allies including Lebanon's Hezbollah and Iranian fighters, the Syrian army is regaining areas on key fronts in the west.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>United Nations investigators called for new sanctions on Syrian officials as well as leaders of the two most hardline among the myriad rebel groups, Islamic State and Jabhat al-Nusra, accusing all three of mass deaths, torture and disappearances of civilians in custody.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>Speaking in Ankara, Merkel, under fire at home over the refugee crisis, said Europe needed to follow up quickly on its pledges of aid to help Turkey cope with the exodus from Syria and also urged the Turkish government to act fast to improve the situation for refugees.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><span id="midArticle_12"/><p> (Additional reporting by <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=nick.tattersall&amp;">Nick Tattersall</a> in Ankara and <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=stephanienebehay&amp;">Stephanie Nebehay</a> in Geneva; writing by Suleiman al-Khalidi and <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=philippa.fletcher&amp;">Philippa Fletcher</a>; editing by <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=peter.graff&amp;">Peter Graff</a>)</p><span id="midArticle_13"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/RRHyaTZe3lY/story01.htm">Source </a>