---
ID: 3653
post_title: 'Johnson Invokes Hitler as Brexit Debate Rhetoric Intensifies &#8211; Bloomberg'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-05-15 13:09:11
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/johnson-invokes-hitler-as-brexit-debate-rhetoric-intensifies-bloomberg/
published: true
original_cats:
  - Top Stories
original_title:
  - 'Johnson Invokes Hitler as Brexit Debate Rhetoric Intensifies - Bloomberg'
original_link:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNHP2xvI28xUzYWQJA-CVE9C9VkY3A&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779108149369&#038;ei=9nQ4V4j5OJKBhQGe86qYCw&#038;url=http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-05-15/boris-johnson-invokes-hitler-as-brexit-debate-temperature-rises'
canonical_url:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNHP2xvI28xUzYWQJA-CVE9C9VkY3A&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779108149369&#038;ei=9nQ4V4j5OJKBhQGe86qYCw&#038;url=http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-05-15/boris-johnson-invokes-hitler-as-brexit-debate-temperature-rises'
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div readability="116.39031180401"> <p>Boris Johnson capped a weekend of intensified campaigning over the Brexit debate with an interview invoking Napoleon Bonaparte and Adolf Hitler, saying that attempts to unify Europe have tended to end “tragically.”</p><p>“The truth is that the history of the last couple of thousand years has been broadly repeated attempts by various people or institutions -- in a Freudian way -- to rediscover the lost childhood of Europe, this golden age of peace and prosperity under the Romans, by trying to unify it,” the former London mayor told the Sunday Telegraph. “Napoleon, Hitler, various people tried this out, and it ends tragically.”</p><figure class="inline-image inline-media right " readability="-23">  <figcaption class="inline-media__info" readability="-21"><p>Boris Johnson speaking in Bristol on May 14.</p>  <p>Photographer: Matt Cardy/Getty Images</p>  </figcaption></figure><p>Johnson weighed in a week after criticizing Prime Minister David Cameron for a speech calling for Britain to remain in the European Union because of the need “to avoid future conflict between European countries.” The comments underscore the extent to which the debate has soured in advance of the June 23 vote on EU membership, even as Johnson emphasized that the organization is not the same as Nazi Germany.</p><p>“The EU is an attempt to do this by different methods,” he said. “But fundamentally what it is lacking is the eternal problem, which is that there is no underlying loyalty to the idea of Europe. There is no single authority that anybody respects or understands.”</p><p>Labour Party lawmaker Hilary Benn, who speaks on foreign affairs, rejected  his arguments.</p><p>“Leave campaigners have lost the economic argument and now they are losing their moral compass,” Benn was quoted by the Guardian as saying. “After the horror of the second world war, the EU helped to bring an end to centuries of conflict in Europe, and for Boris Johnson to make this comparison is both offensive and desperate.”</p><p>‘Greater Europe’</p><p>In contrast, Iain Duncan Smith, the former pensions secretary who is campaigning to leave the EU, defended Johnson.</p><p>“He’s talking about the trend towards the idea of this concept of some kind of Greater Europe, that’s all,” Duncan Smith told the BBC’s Sunday Politics show. “He’s using some historical parallels to explain it, you know as was said earlier on: the Habsburgs, the Holy Roman Empire. All you go through is this idea that somehow there’s this thing called Greater Europe.”</p><p>Asked on the same matter on the weekly political discussion show Peston’s Politics, Jacob Rees-Mogg, a Conservative lawmaker on Parliament’s Treasury Committee who also favors a Brexit, took the analogy even further.</p><p>“Philip II of Spain, Louis XIV of France, Napoleon and Hitler all wanted to create a single European power,” he said. “All of those tried to do it by force and the EU is trying to do it by stealth, and whenever there’s a vote that goes against them, they make people vote again, or as quite disgracefully in Greece, they simply ignore the vote altogether.”</p><p>In Johnson’s interview, which ranged from what wartime leader Winston Churchill would do to a discussion of the euro’s effect on Italy, he suggested that the referendum offers another opportunity for the British to act against the grain of European history.</p><p>“This is a chance for the British people to be the heroes of Europe and to act as a voice of moderation and common sense, and to stop something getting in my view out of control,” he said. “It is time for someone – it’s almost always the British in European history – to say, ‘we think a different approach is called for’.”</p> </div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNHP2xvI28xUzYWQJA-CVE9C9VkY3A&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779108149369&#038;ei=9nQ4V4j5OJKBhQGe86qYCw&#038;url=http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-05-15/boris-johnson-invokes-hitler-as-brexit-debate-temperature-rises">Source </a>