---
ID: 56
post_title: 'Aid convoy enters besieged, starving Syrian town &#8211; Reuters'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-01-11 15:34:10
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/aid-convoy-enters-besieged-starving-syrian-town-reuters/
published: true
original_cats:
  - Top Stories
original_title:
  - 'Aid convoy enters besieged, starving Syrian town - Reuters'
original_link:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNFWwBtOhx9veYigLM0PbrAXX7u7Ug&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779026764904&#038;ei=ccuTVtCyHsj2wQGemLTgDw&#038;url=http://www.reuters.com/article/us-mideast-crisis-syria-idUSKCN0UP0VM20160111'
canonical_url:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNFWwBtOhx9veYigLM0PbrAXX7u7Ug&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779026764904&#038;ei=ccuTVtCyHsj2wQGemLTgDw&#038;url=http://www.reuters.com/article/us-mideast-crisis-syria-idUSKCN0UP0VM20160111'
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span class="focusParagraph" readability="4"><p><span class="articleLocation">MADAYA, Syria</span> An aid convoy entered a besieged Syrian town on Monday where thousands are trapped and the United Nations says people are reported to have died of starvation.</p></span><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>Red Crescent trucks carrying food and medical supplies traveling with U.N. vehicles entered Madaya near the Lebanese border as part of an agreement between warring sides.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>At least 10 people are said to have starved to death in the town and activists say some inhabitants have been reduced to eating leaves.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>Another convoy simultaneously entered two Shi'ite villages, al Foua and Kefraya in the northwestern province of Idlib 300 km (200 miles) away, a U.N. source said.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>Madaya is besieged by pro-Syrian government forces, while the two villages in Idlib province are encircled by rebels fighting the Syrian government.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>The blockade of Madaya has become a focal issue for Syrian opposition leaders, who told a U.N. envoy last week they would not take part in talks with the government, slated for later this month, until it and other sieges are lifted.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>The United Nations said on Thursday the Syrian government had agreed to allow access to Madaya, where U.N. officials say there have been credible reports of people dying of starvation.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, which tracks the war, puts the toll at 10, while opposition activists say it is in the dozens. Reuters could not independently confirm the reports.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>One opposition activist has said people were eating leaves and plants.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>The Madaya blockade began six months ago when the Syrian army and its Lebanese ally, Hezbollah, started a campaign to reestablish President Bashar al-Assad's control over areas along the Syrian-Lebanese border.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>Hezbollah has, in response to accusations it was starving people in Madaya, denied there had been any deaths in the town, and accused rebel leaders of preventing people from leaving.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>The group's Al Manar television showed footage earlier on Monday of hundreds of Madaya residents gathered outdoors waiting to receive aid.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>SIEGE WARFARE</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>Blockades have been a common feature of the nearly five-year-old war that has killed 250,000 people. Government forces have besieged rebel-held areas near Damascus for several years and more recently rebel groups have blockaded loyalist areas including al Foua and Kefraya.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>The areas included in the latest agreement were all part of a local ceasefire deal agreed in September, but implementation has been halting, with some fighting around Madaya despite the truce.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>Each side is looking to exert pressure on the other by restricting entry of humanitarian aid, or evacuations, in the different areas of control, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights says.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>Aid agencies were hoping for easier access to the area following the ceasefire deal concluded under U.N. supervision.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>The last aid delivery to Madaya, which took place in October, was synchronized with a similar delivery to the two villages.    </p><span id="midArticle_2"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>Aid agencies have warned of widespread starvation in Madaya, where 40,000 people are at risk.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>Hezbollah has said rebels in the town had taken control of aid which they were selling to those who could buy. The people of Madaya were being exploited in a propaganda campaign, it said.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>A U.N. commission of inquiry has said siege warfare has been used "in a ruthlessly coordinated and planned manner" in Syria, with the aim of "forcing a population, collectively, to surrender or suffer starvation".</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>One siege is by the Islamic State group, on government-held areas of the city of Deir al-Zor.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>A U.N. Security Council adopted on Dec. 18 setting out a road map for peace talks calls on the parties to allow aid agencies unhindered access throughout Syria, particularly in besieged and hard-to-reach areas.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>A newly formed opposition council set up to oversee negotiations has told U.N. envoy Staffan de Mistura that this must happen before the talks he plans to hold on Jan. 25.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>They also told him that before negotiations, Assad's government, which has military support from Russia and Iran, must halt the bombardment of civilian areas and barrel bombing, and release detainees in line with the resolution.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><span id="midArticle_10"/><p> (Reporting by John Davison and Lisa Barrington in Beirut; additional reporting by Kinda Makieh on the outskirts of Madaya; Editing by <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=hugh.lawson&amp;">Hugh Lawson</a> and <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=giles.elgood&amp;">Giles Elgood</a>)</p><span id="midArticle_11"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNFWwBtOhx9veYigLM0PbrAXX7u7Ug&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779026764904&#038;ei=ccuTVtCyHsj2wQGemLTgDw&#038;url=http://www.reuters.com/article/us-mideast-crisis-syria-idUSKCN0UP0VM20160111">Source </a>