---
ID: 4218
post_title: 'Airports go slow on Delta&#039;s plans to expand VIP security lanes'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-06-03 09:30:09
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/airports-go-slow-on-deltas-plans-to-expand-vip-security-lanes/
published: true
original_cats:
  - domesticNews
original_title:
  - 'Airports go slow on Delta&#039;s plans to expand VIP security lanes'
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/Reuters/domesticNews/~3/gkpcy2Hx1Jw/us-delta-air-lines-airports-idUSKCN0YP0DZ
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/Reuters/domesticNews/~3/gkpcy2Hx1Jw/us-delta-air-lines-airports-idUSKCN0YP0DZ
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="5"><p><span class="articleLocation">NEW YORK</span> As travelers face long waits for U.S. airport security checks, Delta Air Lines Inc wants to expand limited access lanes to allow its top fliers – and anyone who pays a fee – to jump to the front of the line.</p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>But some airport managers are balking at the idea, saying they don't have the room or don't want to do anything that may compound delays for regular fliers. Houston's two main airports plan to drop the program next year.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>Eleven other airports have the expedited lanes operated by CLEAR, a private company. For $179 a year, CLEAR checks users' identities and links them to iris scans and fingerprints.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>At the airports, CLEAR employees verify customers' identities and escort them to the U.S. Transportation Security Administration (TSA) screening area – bypassing other travelers.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>Delta, which bought a 5 percent stake in CLEAR in April, wants the service to expand into its U.S. hubs. Delta also plans to discount CLEAR for frequent fliers and make it free for customers who spend $15,000 and accrue 125,000 miles in a year.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>The No. 2 U.S. airline in passenger traffic said it wants to increase the use of CLEAR because "customers tell us their time is valuable."</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>But representatives of several airports told Reuters they had concerns about adding or expanding the service.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>An official with Houston's Bush and Hobby airports said CLEAR lanes were little used - frustrating other travelers waiting in line.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>'LIKE PLATINUM'</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>At a time when travelers scour websites for bargain airfares, Delta is trying to stand out as a high-end brand with unique services and infrequent flight cancellations. Chief Executive Ed Bastian said he believes the strategy will allow the airline to command higher prices.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>"Our product is not a commodity," Bastian told analysts on an April conference call.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>CLEAR has succeeded in some places. At California's San Jose International Airport - where 100 to 300 people use CLEAR lanes each day, compared to 17,000 or more in the regular lines – it's a hit with technology executives, said the airport's Deputy Director of Airport Operations Bob Lockhart.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>In Orlando, where CLEAR first opened, the program has its own entry into security.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>"There was a joke in Orlando that a CLEAR card was flashed like Platinum American Express," said Carolyn Fennell, spokeswoman for the Greater Orlando Aviation Authority.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>But Charlie Leocha, chairman of consumer advocacy group Travelers United, said it was "a shame that regular travelers get to be treated as second-class citizens."</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>Long lines have been a frustration to frequent travelers like Matt Adams, 33, who flew through San Francisco International Airport earlier this week. Some lanes "are not really managed effectively, while others are backed up," said the software analyst departing San Francisco for New York.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>David Cohen, CLEAR's Chief Administrative Officer, bristled at the notion that the service was elitist. Anybody can buy it, and CLEAR offers promotional rates for first-time users, he said.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>"The CLEAR lane from our perspective is not unlike that toll road that anyone has an opportunity to use," Cohen said.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>JAMMED AIRPORTS</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Acute security delays at airports this spring have been blamed on a good economy and bad planning.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>It began when the TSA opened applications for its own expedited security program, PreCheck, in 2013. For $85 every five years, pre-screened travelers keep their shoes on and laptops stowed, moving through security checks three times as fast.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>The TSA aimed for 25 million people to sign up for pre-vetting and cut agents accordingly. As it turned out, about 10 million travelers have enrolled. On top of that, screening lapses prompted the agency to reduce its practice of pulling fliers from long security lines into under-used PreCheck lanes. As a result, the TSA has not realized the staffing efficiency it expected.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>In addition, travel has surged as the economy recovered. This year, the TSA projects it will screen 15 percent more people than in 2013, with 12 percent fewer agents. (Graphic: <a href="http://tmsnrt.rs/1sMaHZu">tmsnrt.rs/1sMaHZu</a>) </p><span id="midArticle_9"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>Amid the outcry over the ensuing bottlenecks, the TSA replaced Kelly Hoggan, head of its Security Operations Office, and it won funding to hire 768 more agents. The TSA is hoping to contract more vendors to enroll people in PreCheck - an opportunity CLEAR is interested in, Cohen said.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>Airlines also are responding. Delta, American Airlines Group Inc and United Continental Holdings Inc are each adding $4 million to what they typically spend on workers to help TSA agents with non-screening tasks, such as restocking bins. </p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>Any new CLEAR lanes must be approved by airport managers, airlines that share a terminal and the TSA. Several managers said they weren't interested – at least for now.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>"We just don't have room," said Peter Higgins, director of airport operations at Delta's Salt Lake City hub.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>But, a spokeswoman added later, the airport is looking at its options.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>CLEAR plans to expand in coming months, Cohen said. </p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>It has approached Los Angeles, a focus city for Delta, according to a source familiar with the matter. But airport managers there have yet to be convinced that demand for the service merits the space, the source said.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>Los Angeles World Airports declined to comment.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>Managers of Delta's Seattle hub hope to have a contract with CLEAR soon, according to a spokesman. At its Minneapolis hub, talks are ongoing.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>"We’re not quite ready yet to sign on the dotted line," said  Patrick Hogan, a spokesman for the airports commission in Minneapolis. "We don’t want to add a CLEAR line that then squeezes out someone else."</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><span id="midArticle_4"/><p> (Reporting By Jeffrey Dastin in New York; Editing by Joseph White and Lisa Girion)</p><span id="midArticle_5"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/Reuters/domesticNews/~3/gkpcy2Hx1Jw/us-delta-air-lines-airports-idUSKCN0YP0DZ">Source </a>