---
ID: 81
post_title: 'Suicide bomber kills 10 people, mainly Germans, in Istanbul &#8211; Reuters'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-01-12 14:48:38
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/suicide-bomber-kills-10-people-mainly-germans-in-istanbul-reuters/
published: true
original_cats:
  - Top Stories
original_title:
  - 'Suicide bomber kills 10 people, mainly Germans, in Istanbul - Reuters'
original_link:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNHqZ7A91MMJgGUcKyr9bYGtBs5RXA&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779028393947&#038;ei=RRKVVvDIIdCCwgGJubzQAw&#038;url=http://www.reuters.com/article/us-turkey-blast-idUSKCN0UQ0UJ20160112'
canonical_url:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNHqZ7A91MMJgGUcKyr9bYGtBs5RXA&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779028393947&#038;ei=RRKVVvDIIdCCwgGJubzQAw&#038;url=http://www.reuters.com/article/us-turkey-blast-idUSKCN0UQ0UJ20160112'
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="7"><p><span class="articleLocation">ISTANBUL</span> A suicide bomber thought to be from Syria killed at least 10 people, many of them German tourists, in Istanbul's historic heart on Tuesday, an attack senior security officials said was probably planned by Islamic State.</p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>President Tayyip Erdogan condemned the bombing in Sultanahmet square, near the Blue Mosque and Hagia Sophia, major tourist sites in the center of one of the world's most visited cities. He said a Syrian was thought responsible and that the blast would only harden Turkey's resolve in fighting terrorism.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>Deputy Prime Minister Numan Kurtulmus said the bomber had been identified from body parts at the scene, and was a Syrian national born in 1988 whose links were being investigated. </p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>Sources in Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu's office said most of those killed were Germans and he had spoken by phone with Chancellor Angela Merkel to express condolences. Merkel earlier said she was very worried Germans might be among the victims.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>Several bodies lay on the ground in the square, also known as the Hippodrome of Constantinople, in the immediate aftermath. It was not densely packed at the time of the explosion, according to a police officer working there, but small groups of tourists had been wandering around.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>"This incident has once again shown that as a nation we should act as one heart, one body in the fight against terror. Turkey’s determined and principled stance in the fight against terrorism will continue to the end," Erdogan told a lunch for Turkish ambassadors, in a speech broadcast live on television.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>Norway's foreign ministry said one Norwegian man was injured and was being treated in hospital. The Dogan news agency said nine Germans and one Peruvian were also wounded.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>Two senior security officials told Reuters there was a high probability that Islamic State militants were responsible.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Turkey, a NATO member and candidate for accession to the European Union, is part of a U.S.-led coalition against Islamic State fighters who have seized territory in neighboring Syria and Iraq, some of it directly abutting Turkey.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>There was no immediate claim of responsibility but Islamist, leftist and Kurdish militants, who are battling Ankara in southeast Turkey, have all carried out attacks in the past.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>The Istanbul governor's office said the authorities were investigating the type of explosive used and who might have been responsible. </p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>"We heard a loud sound and I looked at the sky to see if it was raining because I thought it was thunder but the sky was clear," said Kuwaiti tourist Farah Zamani, 24, who was shopping at one of the covered bazaars with her father and sister.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>"UNIMAGINABLE" SCENE</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>The dull thud of the blast was heard in districts of Istanbul several kilometers away, residents said. Television footage showed a police car which appeared to have been overturned by the force of the blast. </p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>Tourist sites including the Hagia Sophia and nearby Basilica Cistern were closed on the governor's orders, officials said.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>"At first we thought it was percussion bomb, it was so loud. They attacked Sultanahmet to grab attention because this is what the world thinks of when it thinks of Turkey," said Kursat Yilmaz, who has operated tours for 25 years from an office by the square.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>"We're not surprised this happened here, this has always been a possible target," he said.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>Ambulances ferried away the wounded as police cordoned off streets. The sound of the call to prayer rang out from the Blue Mosque as forensic police officers worked at the scene.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>"It was unimaginable," the police officer who had been working on the square said, describing an amateur video he had seen of the immediate aftermath, with six or seven bodies lying on the ground and other people seriously wounded.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>Just over a year ago, a female suicide bomber blew herself up at a police station for tourists off the same square, killing one officer. That attack was initially claimed by a far-left group, the DHKP-C, but officials later said it had been carried out by a woman with suspected Islamist militant links.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>"Ambulances started rushing in and I knew it was a bomb right away because the same thing happened here last year," said Ali Ibrahim Peltek, 40, who operates a kiosk selling snacks and drinks on the square.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>"This is not good for Turkey but everyone was expecting a terrorist attack," he said.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>TURKEY A TARGET</p><span id="midArticle_9"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>Turkey has become a target for Islamic State, with two bombings last year blamed on the radical Sunni Muslim group, in the town of Suruc near the Syrian border and in the capital Ankara, the latter killing more than 100 people.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>Violence has also escalated in the mainly Kurdish southeast since a two-year ceasefire collapsed in July between the state and the Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) militant group, which has been fighting for three decades for Kurdish autonomy.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>The PKK has however generally avoided attacking civilian targets in urban centers outside the southeast in recent years.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>Turkey also sees a threat from the PYD and YPG, Kurdish groups in Syria which are fighting Islamic State and with U.S. backing, but which Ankara says have close links to the PKK.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>"For us, there is no difference between the PKK, PYD, YPG, DHKP-C … or whatever their abbreviation may be. One terrorist organization is no different than the other," Erdogan said, vowing that Turkey's military campaign against Kurdish militants in the southeast would continue.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>Davutoglu's office imposed a broadcasting ban on the blast, invoking a law which allows for such steps when there is the potential for serious harm to national security or public order.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>The attack raised fears of further damage to Turkey's vital tourism industry, already hit by a diplomatic row with Moscow which has seen Russian tour operators cancel trips.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>But Yilmaz, the tour operator, said he had sold a package to a tourist from Colombia just an hour after the blast.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>"The reality is the world has grown accustomed to terrorism. It's unfortunate, and I wish it weren't true, but terrorism now happens everywhere: Paris, Germany, California, and people are used to it," he said.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>"The agenda changes quickly in this age. If tourism is affected by this, it will be temporary. These things pass, but the Hagia Sophia and the Sultanahmet mosque are eternal."</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><span id="midArticle_4"/><p> (Additional reporting by Orhan Coskun and Ece Toksabay in Ankara, <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=humeyra.pamuk&amp;">Humeyra Pamuk</a>, <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=darenbutler&amp;">Daren Butler</a> and Melih Aslan in Istanbul, <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=madeline.chambers&amp;">Madeline Chambers</a> in Berlin and Joachim Dagenborg in Oslo; Writing by <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=nick.tattersall&amp;">Nick Tattersall</a>; Editing by <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=philippa.fletcher&amp;">Philippa Fletcher</a>)</p><span id="midArticle_5"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNHqZ7A91MMJgGUcKyr9bYGtBs5RXA&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779028393947&#038;ei=RRKVVvDIIdCCwgGJubzQAw&#038;url=http://www.reuters.com/article/us-turkey-blast-idUSKCN0UQ0UJ20160112">Source </a>