---
ID: 3692
post_title: 'Warren Buffett&#039;s Berkshire takes $1 billion bite of Apple'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-05-16 21:03:13
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/warren-buffetts-berkshire-takes-1-billion-bite-of-apple/
published: true
original_cats:
  - topNews
original_title:
  - 'Warren Buffett&#039;s Berkshire takes $1 billion bite of Apple'
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/t999cYDbNL4/us-investments-funds-buffett-idUSKCN0Y71CS
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/t999cYDbNL4/us-investments-funds-buffett-idUSKCN0Y71CS
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="5"><p><span class="articleLocatio&lt;/span&gt;n">Warren Buffett's Berkshire Hathaway Inc (<span id="symbol_BRKa.N_0">BRKa.N</span>) revealed a more than $1 billion stake in Apple Inc (<span id="symbol_AAPL.O_1">AAPL.O</span>) in a rare foray into the technology sector, which the billionaire has largely shunned apart from a poorly performing investment in IBM (<span id="symbol_IBM.N_2">IBM.N</span>). </span></p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>Shares of Apple rose 3.7 percent on the Berkshire imprimatur, closing up $3.36 at $93.88. Berkshire made its investment in the first quarter, before the iPhone maker in April reported its first quarterly revenue decline in 13 years.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>The investment came despite an increasing view among investors that Apple may deserve a lower valuation because its heady growth days may be over. However, Apple has a strong balance sheet and management, attributes long favored by Berkshire.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>"We've considered this a value stock since 2013, so it's not surprising that Berkshire sees it the same way," said Steve Chiavarone, a portfolio manager at Federated Investors in New York. "It's a value stock that has the potential for a big growth." </p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>In a regulatory filing detailing most of its stock holdings, Berkshire said it held 9.81 million Apple shares worth $1.07 billion as of March 31.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>The value has since fallen to about $921 million, despite Monday's gain. Berkshire's largest technology bet has been Buffett's roughly $12.1 billion stake in International Business Machines Corp, itself now more than $1.6 billion in the red.  </p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>Apple stock "is stunningly cheap, and it has a massive pile of cash," said Steve Wallman, founder of Wallman Investment Counsel in Middleton, Wisconsin, who has owned Berkshire since 1982 and Apple since 2003. "Apple is not getting credit for research and development it is doing behind the scenes."</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>An Apple spokeswoman did not respond to requests for comment.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>APPLE FALLS</p><span id="midArticle_10"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>The Apple investment was made by one of Buffett's stockpicking deputies, Todd Combs and Ted Weschler, his assistant said in an email to The Wall Street Journal.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>Combs and Weschler, who ran hedge funds before joining Berkshire, each invest about $9 billion and usually make smaller wagers, while their boss, known as the Oracle of Omaha, makes bigger investments such as IBM.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>Investors said Combs may have been the Apple buyer. He  invested in chipmaker Intel Corp (<span id="symbol_INTC.O_3">INTC.O</span>) for Berkshire in 2011.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>Buffett's assistant did not respond to a request for comment.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>In April, Apple said quarterly revenue declined as an increasingly saturated smartphone market hurt iPhone sales, which fell for the first time. </p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>Chief Executive Tim Cook is looking to develop other technologies for the Cupertino, California-based company, and last week unveiled a $1 billion investment in Chinese ride-hailing service Didi Chuxing.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>Apple's market value last week dipped below that of Google parent Alphabet Inc (<span id="symbol_GOOGL.O_4">GOOGL.O</span>), even though Apple generates roughly triple the revenue and profit. Before Monday, shares of Apple had fallen by one-third from their April 2015 peak.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>Chiavarone, from Federated Investors, said he invests in Apple stock, and that its price-earnings multiple is lower than his other technology sector investments.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>Berkshire's investment also puts it at odds with investors that have retrenched from Apple.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>Last month, billionaire Carl Icahn said he sold his Apple stake on concern about the company's relationship with China.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>David Tepper's Appaloosa LP sold its stake in the first quarter, while Ray Dalio's Bridgewater Associates cut its stake by two-thirds. Leon Cooperman's Omega Advisors also shed its Apple stake, a person familiar with the matter said.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>YAHOO</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>Despite his aversion to technology sector, Buffett told CNBC on Monday, he offered to help Dan Gilbert, the chairman of Quicken Loans and owner of the Cleveland Cavaliers basketball team, finance a bid for Internet company Yahoo Inc (<span id="symbol_YHOO.O_5">YHOO.O</span>).</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Reuters first reported Buffett's involvement on Friday. </p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>While Buffett told CNBC he would not be an equity partner, he could collect dividends or interest on the financing, and perhaps take an equity stake later.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>"Buffett has always restricted himself from investing in things he doesn't know or understand, and staying within his circle of confidence," said Richard Cook, co-founder of Cook &amp; Bynum Capital Management LLC in Birmingham, Alabama, which invests 8 percent of the $350 million it manages in Berkshire.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>The Apple investment may have been made with proceeds from the sale of AT&amp;T Inc (<span id="symbol_T.N_6">T.N</span>) stock, as Berkshire exited what had been a $1.6 billion stake.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>In Monday's filing, Berkshire also reported higher stakes in IBM, Bank of New York Mellon Corp (<span id="symbol_BK.N_7">BK.N</span>), Deere &amp; Co (<span id="symbol_DE.N_8">DE.N</span>) and Visa Inc (<span id="symbol_V.N_9">V.N</span>), and lower stakes in MasterCard Inc (<span id="symbol_MA.N_10">MA.N</span>) and Wal-Mart Stores Inc (<span id="symbol_WMT.N_11">WMT.N</span>).</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><span id="midArticle_14"/><p> (Reporting by Jonathan Stempel in New York; Additional reporting by Jennifer Ablan and David Randall in New York and Ross Kerber in Boston; Editing by Lisa Von Ahn and Steve Orlofsky)</p><span id="midArticle_15"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/t999cYDbNL4/us-investments-funds-buffett-idUSKCN0Y71CS">Source </a>