---
ID: 3313
post_title: 'Rebels launch assault in Syria&#039;s Aleppo, diplomats try to revive truce'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-05-03 22:44:15
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/rebels-launch-assault-in-syrias-aleppo-diplomats-try-to-revive-truce/
published: true
original_cats:
  - topNews
original_title:
  - 'Rebels launch assault in Syria&#039;s Aleppo, diplomats try to revive truce'
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/N-ybNpYed5o/us-mideast-crisis-syria-hospital-idUSKCN0XU0X9
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/N-ybNpYed5o/us-mideast-crisis-syria-hospital-idUSKCN0XU0X9
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="4"><p><span class="articleLocation">BEIRUT/MOSCOW</span> Rebel fighters launched an assault in Syria's divided northern city of Aleppo on Tuesday and fired rockets on a hospital in the latest violence to hit civilians as diplomats struggled to restore an unraveling ceasefire and resurrect peace talks.</p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, a British-based group that monitors the conflict, said rebel rockets had killed 19 people in government-held territory, including an unspecified number at the al-Dabit hospital.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>It described a rebel offensive that led to casualties on both sides. Rebels had hit a government gun position with a guided missile.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>The Syrian state-run Ikhbariya news channel said three women were killed at the hospital and 17 people wounded. A Damascus Information Ministry statement called it a crime against humanity.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>The rebel attack followed government air strikes on rebel areas, including one that hit a hospital last week, which medical charity Medecins Sans Frontieres said killed 55 civilians.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Aleppo has been the scene of the worst surge in fighting in recent days, wrecking the first major ceasefire of the five-year-old civil war, sponsored by the United States and Russia, which had held since February.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>The United States and Russia have taken the leading roles in diplomacy since Moscow joined the war last year with an air campaign that tipped the balance of power in favor of President Bashar al-Assad, its ally.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>In an effort to revive the ceasefire, temporary local truces have been put in place in two parts of Syria, but those have not been extended to Aleppo, Syria's largest city before the war and its biggest strategic prize now.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>U.N. Syria envoy Staffan de Mistura, who met U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry in Geneva on Monday and Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov in Moscow on Tuesday, said he hoped the truce could be extended to Aleppo swiftly.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>"We all hope that ... in a few hours we can relaunch the cessation of hostilities. If we can do this, we will be back on the right track," de Mistura said. If the truce were extended to Aleppo, peace talks could resume, he said.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>Lavrov said, "The process of agreeing a ceasefire in Aleppo is being finished right now between Russian and American military personnel."</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>He added that he hoped it could be announced in the near future, "maybe even in the coming hours."</p><span id="midArticle_12"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>KERRY WARNS ASSAD OF 'REPERCUSSIONS'</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>In pointed remarks in Washington on Tuesday, Kerry warned Assad of "repercussions" if he did not stick to the ceasefire and move forward with a political transition aimed at ending the war in Syria.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>"If Assad does not adhere to this, there will clearly be repercussions, and one of them may be the total destruction of the ceasefire and then go back to war," Kerry told reporters a day after the meetings in Geneva.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>"I don't think Russia wants that. I don't think Assad is going to benefit from that. There may be even other repercussions being discussed," he said.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>It was not clear what Kerry meant by repercussions. Obama administration officials have previously warned of consequences for Assad's actions in Syria's civil war, but critics have said the United States has failed to follow through with a more aggressive response.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>Kerry said fighting in Aleppo could escalate if the ceasefire was not extended to the city.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>The Aleppo fighting threatens to wreck the first peace talks involving the warring parties, which are due to resume at an unspecified date after breaking up in April when the opposition delegation walked out.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>Washington and Moscow have announced a new joint center in Geneva to monitor the ceasefire, to be staffed around the clock by U.S. and Russian officers. </p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>The two governments have been working to extend the local truces to Aleppo but so far have not been able to do so, although both have expressed optimism that this can be achieved.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>BIG PRIZE</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Aleppo remains the biggest prize for Assad's forces hoping to take full control of the city. The nearby countryside includes the last strip of the Syria-Turkish border in the hands of Sunni rebels.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>The Observatory has reported 279 civilians killed on both sides in Aleppo since April 22, by intense government air strikes and rebel shelling, with 155 killed in opposition-held areas and 124 in government-held districts.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>Tuesday's rebel ground assault focused on the Jamiat al-Zahraa area of the city, where insurgent groups took a few buildings before advances were checked by the arrival of reinforcements on the government side, the Observatory said.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>A Syrian army source said a car bomb was used in an attack nearby, but the assault had failed. "Matters had been moving towards Aleppo being included in the truce, but it seems there are those who do not want that," the source said.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>A Syrian army statement on Tuesday said the rebel attack on the hospital came "at a time when international and local efforts are being made to shore up" the ceasefire and extend the truce to Aleppo.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>In a statement, the Nour Al Edin Al Zenkey rebel group accused the government of launching the first ground assault on Tuesday, saying it had attacked west of Aleppo. The group said the assault was successfully repelled and was followed by a counterattack in which rebels captured several positions.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>The civil war in Syria has killed hundred of thousands of people, driven millions from their homes, created the world's worst refugee crisis and provided a base for Islamic State militants who have launched attacks elsewhere.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>All diplomatic efforts to resolve it have foundered over the fate of Assad, who refuses to accept opposition demands that he leave power.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>Washington is among Western and regional powers that say Assad must leave office.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><span id="midArticle_2"/><span id="midArticle_3"/><span id="midArticle_4"/><p> (Additional reporting by Polina Devitt in Moscow and Tom Perry in Beirut, and Lesley Wroughton and David Alexander in Washington; Writing by Peter Graff and Peter Cooney; Editing by David Stamp, Toni Reinhold)</p><span id="midArticle_5"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/N-ybNpYed5o/us-mideast-crisis-syria-hospital-idUSKCN0XU0X9">Source </a>