---
ID: 5470
post_title: 'The Latest: Speakers call for justice at Sterling funeral &#8211; Washington Post'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-07-15 18:11:11
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/the-latest-speakers-call-for-justice-at-sterling-funeral-washington-post/
published: true
original_cats:
  - Top Stories
original_title:
  - 'The Latest: Speakers call for justice at Sterling funeral - Washington Post'
original_link:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNFtrzXDw31LNIEPiVi3JJVsjySJpw&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779159215741&#038;ei=0iaJV9bqG4efhAHsn6XIBQ&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/the-latest-man-accused-of-stealing-guns-due-in-court/2016/07/15/69a5eb3c-4a96-11e6-8dac-0c6e4accc5b1_story.html'
canonical_url:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNFtrzXDw31LNIEPiVi3JJVsjySJpw&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779159215741&#038;ei=0iaJV9bqG4efhAHsn6XIBQ&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/the-latest-man-accused-of-stealing-guns-due-in-court/2016/07/15/69a5eb3c-4a96-11e6-8dac-0c6e4accc5b1_story.html'
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id=""><p>BATON ROUGE, La. — The Latest on the fatal shooting of a black man by Baton Rouge police officers (all times local):</p> <p>12:40 p.m.</p> <p>Speakers at Alton Sterling’s funeral are calling for justice in the shooting death of the 37-year-old black man at the hands of two white police officers.</p> <p>Robert Muhammed, from the Nation of Islam, gave a rousing speech to the crowd of a couple thousand people assembled Friday at Southern University in Baton Rouge.</p> <p>He said there was no substitute for justice.</p> <p>Another speaker, Chauna Banks from the Baton Rouge Metro Council, told the crowd that Sterling’s blood cries out for justice.</p> <p>Activists Jesse Jackson and the Rev. Al Sharpton were also attending the service and were expected to speak.</p> <p>Alton Sterling was shot and killed July 5 in front of a convenience store after an altercation with police. His death and the two cellphone videos documenting it have sparked widespread protests.</p> <p>__</p> <p>11:25 a.m.</p> <p>Two of President Barack Obama’s two senior advisers are attending the funeral of the black Louisiana man who was killed by police last week.</p> <p>The White House says Roy Austin, deputy assistant to the president for urban affairs, attended the funeral for 37-year-old Alton Sterling in Baton Rouge.</p> <p>Sterling was fatally shot by two white officers who pinned him to the ground outside a convenience store.</p> <p>Stephanie Young, another Obama adviser, also attended Sterling’s funeral.</p> <p>Young and Cabinet secretary Broderick Johnson represented Obama at the funeral Thursday for Philando Castile. The 32-year-old was shot by police in suburban St. Paul, Minnesota, during a traffic stop.</p> <p>Johnson chairs the My Brother’s Keeper task force. Obama created the program to help minority males stay on the right path.</p> <p>___</p> <p>11:15 a.m.</p> <p>The funeral for a 37-year-old black man who was killed by police has started in Baton Rouge.</p> <p>The services for Alton Sterling got underway Friday with a gospel choir singing hymns, as many in the crowd of a couple thousand joined in.</p> <p>Gary Chambers, a spokesman for the Sterling family and master of ceremonies for the funeral, said at the beginning that the event was intended to be a celebration of Sterling’s life — not an opportunity for demonstrations about his death. He told people that if they wanted to protest, they should leave.</p> <p>Sterling was shot to death as two white officers pinned him to the pavement. The killing was recorded on cellphone video and shared across the internet, fueling nationwide protests.</p> <p>Police said he had a gun.</p> <p>___</p> <p>9:25 a.m.</p> <p>A stream of mourners is paying their respects to Alton Sterling, a 37-year-old man who was fatally shot by Baton Rouge police on July 5.</p> <p>Sterling’s death was recorded on cellphone video and shared across the internet. Sterling’s death and a fatal police shooting in Minnesota helped fuel recent nationwide protests. Sterling was selling CDs outside a convenience store when two white officers pinned him to the pavement and he was fatally shot. Police said he had a gun.</p> <p>Sterling’s body lay in an open casket Friday inside the basketball arena at Southern University, a historically black college in north Baton Rouge. A funeral was to take place later in the morning.</p> <p>Claire Carter was among those who came to pay respect. She, like so many others, says she wants aggressive policing to end.</p> <p>She said the encounter Sterling had with police “went too far” as police tackled him and used a stun gun on him. Officers were responding to an anonymous call that he had threatened someone with a gun.</p> <p>Carter said she bought a rhythm and blues CD from Sterling about a year ago and took it out and played it again after his death.</p> <p>___</p> <p>9:10 a.m.</p> <p>A Baton Rouge man accused of stealing guns from a pawn shop told investigators he was motivated by money, despite claims that an alleged accomplice said they stole firearms to shoot police officers.</p> <p>Twenty-year-old Malik Bridgewater is scheduled to make his initial appearance in federal court on Friday. Police arrested Bridgewater and two other suspects following a burglary last weekend at a pawn shop where eight handguns were stolen.</p> <p>A court filing Thursday says Bridgewater told investigators his motivation for the burglary was to sell stolen items.</p> <p>But state and local law-enforcement authorities said the stolen guns were part of a credible threat to harm police officers.</p> <p>The arrests came amid heightened tensions in Baton Rouge following a black man’s fatal shooting during a struggle with two white police officers.</p> <p>___</p> <p>3:15 a.m.</p> <p>Family and friends of a black man shot and killed by two white police officers in Louisiana are gathering to honor him.</p> <p>Funeral services are being held Friday for 37-year-old Alton Sterling, who died July 5 outside a Baton Rouge convenience store during an altercation with the officers.</p> <p>Captured on video recordings, Sterling’s death sparked outrage among many in the African-American community about the treatment of black people by police. His death prompted protests and heightened tensions in the U.S. along with last week’s deadly police shooting of a black man in Minnesota and the killing of five police officers in Dallas.</p> <p>A public viewing is set to begin at 8 a.m. CDT at Southern University in Baton Rouge followed by a funeral.</p> <p>Copyright 2016 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.</p> </div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNFtrzXDw31LNIEPiVi3JJVsjySJpw&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779159215741&#038;ei=0iaJV9bqG4efhAHsn6XIBQ&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/the-latest-man-accused-of-stealing-guns-due-in-court/2016/07/15/69a5eb3c-4a96-11e6-8dac-0c6e4accc5b1_story.html">Source </a>