---
ID: 4222
post_title: 'The Latest: Too early to say when Louvre will reopen &#8211; Washington Post'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-06-03 12:33:08
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/the-latest-too-early-to-say-when-louvre-will-reopen-washington-post/
published: true
original_cats:
  - Top Stories
original_title:
  - 'The Latest: Too early to say when Louvre will reopen - Washington Post'
original_link:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNFfYRxqFBAGWw3OzxbtXHEYULcpKA&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779125505212&#038;ei=A3lRV7jqDuOWwQG-jrjgDA&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/the-latest-20000-without-power-in-france-amid-floods/2016/06/03/ab0cdb9c-295f-11e6-8329-6104954928d2_story.html'
canonical_url:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNFfYRxqFBAGWw3OzxbtXHEYULcpKA&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779125505212&#038;ei=A3lRV7jqDuOWwQG-jrjgDA&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/the-latest-20000-without-power-in-france-amid-floods/2016/06/03/ab0cdb9c-295f-11e6-8329-6104954928d2_story.html'
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id=""><p>PARIS — The Latest on the flooding that has affected parts of Europe (all times local):</p> <p>2:10 p.m.</p> <p>French environment officials say the Seine River will reach its maximum level late Friday as rainfall across the country begins to taper off.</p> <p>An update posted to the environment ministry’s flood watch website says that the Seine would reach its highest level “from the end of the day Friday.”</p> <p>Ministry officials also have downgraded the “red alert” issued for a tributary of the Seine, the Loing, and the Indre River, in central France. Several rivers, including the Seine, are still on “orange alert,” meaning that there remains a risk of serious flooding.</p> <p>While storms are still expected in France’s northeast the rainfall will not hit river basins already affected by flooding.</p> <p>___</p> <p>2:05 p.m.</p> <p>French officials say it’s too early to say when the Louvre and other cultural heritage sites affected by the flooding will open.</p> <p>French Culture Minister Audrey Azouley told journalists she and others were evaluating the situation “nearly hour-by-hour as we don’t know yet the evolution of the level of the Seine River.”</p> <p>The Louvre, which is on the right bank of the Seine, and the Orsay Museum, on the left, were closed Thursday following fears that the rising water levels would lead to leaks. Paris’ National Library is also closed.</p> <p>Louvre Director Jean-Luc Martinez said the museum’s artwork was in no immediate danger but that the museum needed about 72 hours of lead time to begin evacuating its reserve, which he said comprises about 250,000 pieces of art. Asked when the Louvre would reopen, he said: “We can’t say yet.”</p> <p>___</p> <p>1:20 p.m.</p> <p>Rescue workers in Belgium have found the body of a beekeeper who was swept away by rising waters while trying to protect his hives.</p> <p>The man was reported missing in the village of Harsin on Thursday. Local authorities said the man, in his 60s, was found on Friday morning after fire department divers resumed the search for him.</p> <p>After days of heavy rain, the Wamme river overflowed its banks and flooded several villages. Homes were inundated and cars swept away.</p> <p>___</p> <p>1:10 p.m.</p> <p>German authorities say asylum-seekers are pitching in to help recovery workers and townspeople in flooded areas of southern states.</p> <p>In the Bavarian town of Simbach am Inn, near the Austrian border, Syrian Naja Al Hassas told the dpa news agency Friday that “we know what it means to live in a crisis area and to lose your home” as he helped shovel away rubble.</p> <p>The 30-year-old was one of about 25 Syrians helping in the town. His friend, Mouath, said “we’ve gotten so much help from the people in Simbach, now we can give something back and that’s good.”</p> <p>Simbach Mayor Klaus Schmid says “we couldn’t cope without volunteer helpers.”</p> <p>Authorities say nearly 50 asylum-seekers have also been helping out in the southwestern town of Braunsbach, which was flooded on Sunday.</p> <p>___</p> <p>11:15 a.m.</p> <p>A beekeeper has been reported missing in eastern Belgium after being swept away while trying to save his hives from rising waters.</p> <p>After days of strong rains, the Wamme river overflowed its banks and flooded several villages in the Belgian province of Luxembourg.</p> <p>Fire department divers hunted for the missing beekeeper from Harsin until 2 a.m. Friday, and were expected to resume the search during the day. Homes were inundated and cars carried away by the high waters.</p> <p>___</p> <p>11:00 a.m.</p> <p>Authorities say that two people have died and 200 people have been evacuated from their homes as floods swept parts of eastern Romania.</p> <p>The interior ministry said 7,000 firefighters, police and others had been dispatched overnight Friday to help in flood rescue efforts.</p> <p>The ministry said in a statement that a man died after a torrent of water knocked him off his bicycle in the eastern village of Ruginesti. In Bacau county, in eastern Romania, another man was found drowned.</p> <p>___</p> <p>10:55 a.m.</p> <p>French officials say that a second person has died in flooding that has hit large parts of the country.</p> <p>France’s interior ministry said Friday that the 74-year-old man fell into a river in the Seine-et-Marne region east of Paris. He was riding a horse at the time of the accident on Thursday evening. No other details were provided.</p> <p>Earlier this week, an 86-year-old woman died in her flooded home in Souppes-sur-Loing, southeast of Paris.</p> <p>The interior ministry says 20,000 people have been evacuated from their homes across France in operations involving thousands of firefighters, military personnel and other officials.</p> <p>Waters continue to rise even as the rainfall tapers off. The Seine River is expected to reach its highest level later Friday.</p> <p>___</p> <p>10:40 a.m.</p> <p>Tourists at the Louvre are being turned away as museum workers scramble to protect the world-famous institution’s priceless pieces of art from the rising waters of the Seine River.</p> <p>The operation to remove artwork from the Paris museum’s lower stories has attracted worldwide interest amid flooding which sent the Seine’s waters rising to their highest levels in roughly 35 years.</p> <p>Louvre staffers are due to address journalists about the operation later Friday. Other museums and cultural institutions have also been closed across France, including the renowned castles of Chambord and Azay-le-Rideau.</p> <p>___</p> <p>10:00 a.m.</p> <p>German officials say they’ve recovered the body of a sixth person who died in this week’s flooding in Bavaria near the Austrian border.</p> <p>Authorities say the 65-year-old man’s body was found overnight in the town of Simbach am Inn, which was indundated on Wednesday. Now that flood waters have receded in the area, the search continues for other missing people. Local police told the dpa news agency Friday that they were still trying to locate an elderly couple in Simbach.</p> <p>In all, that brings the total of people killed in flooding over the last week in Germany to 10 — including four in Baden-Wuerttemberg, to Bavaria’s west, in flooding that hit Sunday and Monday.</p> <p>___</p> <p>9:45 a.m.</p> <p>French energy company Enedis says that more than 20,000 customers are without power in the wake of days of flooding and heavy rains.</p> <p>In a text message, the company says that the blackouts Friday are concentrated in the departments of Seine et Marne and Essonne — to the east and south of Paris, respectively.</p> <p>___</p> <p>9:20 a.m.</p> <p>French officials say that the Seine River is still rising in Paris as France’s unseasonable spate of rainfall begins to taper off.</p> <p>Traffic in the capital was snarled as flooding choked roads and several Paris railway stations were shut. The country’s environment ministry said the Seine had not reached such levels since 1982.</p> <p>The Louvre Museum is closed Friday as staff work to remove artworks from rooms threatened by the rising waters.</p> <p>French President Francois Hollande has said that a “natural disaster” will be formally declared next week in a Cabinet meeting for areas most affected by the flooding that has hit Paris and France’s central regions.</p> <p>Copyright 2016 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.</p> </div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNFfYRxqFBAGWw3OzxbtXHEYULcpKA&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779125505212&#038;ei=A3lRV7jqDuOWwQG-jrjgDA&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/europe/the-latest-20000-without-power-in-france-amid-floods/2016/06/03/ab0cdb9c-295f-11e6-8329-6104954928d2_story.html">Source </a>