---
ID: 4806
post_title: 'Republicans mull going home to thwart Democratic gun control sit-in on House floor &#8211; Washington Post'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-06-23 07:06:08
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/republicans-mull-going-home-to-thwart-democratic-gun-control-sit-in-on-house-floor-washington-post/
published: true
original_cats:
  - Top Stories
original_title:
  - 'Republicans mull going home to thwart Democratic gun control sit-in on House floor - Washington Post'
original_link:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNFj5kehMbM8XR8YaclIkGsT8_ZyMw&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779137599935&#038;ei=X4prV7jpONGLhQH06amwDw&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/powerpost/wp/2016/06/22/democrats-stage-protest-on-house-floor-to-force-gun-control-votes/'
canonical_url:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNFj5kehMbM8XR8YaclIkGsT8_ZyMw&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779137599935&#038;ei=X4prV7jpONGLhQH06amwDw&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/powerpost/wp/2016/06/22/democrats-stage-protest-on-house-floor-to-force-gun-control-votes/'
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id=""><div class="inline-content inline-video" readability="33">  <p> <span class="pb-caption">House Democrats staged a sit-in June 22 and refused to leave the chamber until securing a vote on gun control measures. Here's why. (Victoria Walker/The Washington Post)</span> </p> </div> <p>Democrats took over the House floor on Wednesday in an attempt to force votes on gun-control proposals, holding their sit-in well into Thursday morning more 12 hours after it began.</p> <p>Many House Democrats said they plan to stay in the chamber all night — even if Republicans decide to shut off the lights and the air conditioning — to call for congressional action following the recent mass shooting in Orlando.</p> <p>“I don’t know how many of us or all of us are going to stay,” said Rep. Jan Schakowsky (D-Ill.). “But my plan is I have a blankey.”</p> <p><em><a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/powerpost/wp/2016/06/23/how-house-democrats-pulled-off-their-dramatic-sit-in-on-the-house-floor/">[How Democrats pulled off their dramatic House floor sit-in]</a></em></p> <p>Democrats are demanding votes on measures that would prevent suspected terrorists from buying firearms and expand background checks for firearm purchases.</p> <p>Early Thursday morning, Republican leaders were preparing to pull the plug on House business for the week and adjourn until after the Fourth of July recess. Republicans are “seriously considering” holding a series of votes Thursday morning on a Zika funding package negotiated by House and Senate Republicans and a separate measure to adjourn until July 5, according to several GOP aides. That plan could force an end to the sit-in.</p> <p>“Democrats can continue to talk, but the reality is that they have no end-game strategy…and no stunts on the floor will change that,” said AshLee Strong, press secretary for House Speaker Paul Ryan (R-Wis.).</p> <p>Around 1 a.m., Republicans began the process of setting up the vote on the Zika funding, which if adopted would then clear the way for the GOP leaders to send members home until July 5.</p> <p><em><a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/powerpost/wp/2016/06/23/why-house-republicans-arent-giving-in-to-democrats-demands-for-a-gun-vote/">[Why House Republicans aren’t giving in to Democrats demands for gun votes]</a></em></p> <p>Democratic members caught wind of the plan and blasted Republicans on the floor.</p> <p>“They will leave town in the middle of the night in a cowardly fashion,” House Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi (D-Calif.) said on the floor.</p> <p>Democrats have little recourse to stop Republicans from voting to adjourn the House, but argued the move would send a message to voters.</p> <p>“What are the consequences?,” Rep. Steve Israel (D-N.Y.), the former Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee head, said on MSNBC. “They’re going to have to go home to their districts, whether its tomorrow or next week, and explain to their constituents why they weren’t courageous enough to even bring a bill to a vote.”</p> <p>The protest started early in the day when a group of House Democrats chanting “no bill, no vote” shouted down Republican leaders’ efforts to gavel the House into session around 11:30 a.m., and then prevented the GOP from conducting regular business for most of the day.</p> <p>Around 10 p.m., House Speaker Paul D. Ryan (R-Wis.) banged the gavel and called the House back into session for a vote to override President Obama’s veto of a measure that would scale back new regulations for financial advisers. Democrats voted to sustain the veto while continuing to chant and protest.</p> <p>Republicans immediately called the House into recess after the vote was completed and Democrats returned to their sit-in.</p> <p>The vote was an attempt by Republican leaders to show the House could do its business despite the Democrats’ protest. But it was held as Democrats sang “We Shall Overcome,” switching the words of the second verse to “we shall pass a bill.” Following the vote, Democrats made clear they would continue their protest.</p> <p>“We can win and we will win,” they chanted at one point.</p> <p>Tensions began to rise late in the evening with Rep. Louie Gohmert (R-Tex.) yelling at Democrats that they should talk about “radical Islam,” a reference to Orlando gunman Omar Mateen’s pledge of solidarity with the Islamic State, while Democrats shouted back that Republicans should hold a vote on gun-control proposals.</p> <p>At one point Rep. Steve King (R-Iowa) stepped in between Gohmert and the Democrats saying later he was afraid it would turn into a physical fight.</p> <p>Outside the Capitol, a group of protesters gathered, and Rep. John Lewis (D-Ga.), one of the leaders of the sit-in, spoke to the gathering of about 150 around 10:45 on the Capitol lawn.</p> <p>“By standing here tonight, by standing with us, you’re bearing witness to the truth; you must never ever give up or give in or give out,” he said. “We got to stop the violence and do something about the proliferation of guns.”</p> <p>Earlier in the day, President Obama praised Lewis for his role in pushing for the gun votes.</p> <div class="inline-content inline-html" readability="24.021739130435"> <blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-width="500" readability="5.9130434782609"> <p dir="ltr" lang="en">Thank you John Lewis for leading on gun violence where we need it most. <a href="https://t.co/vctfqAH5Wt">https://t.co/vctfqAH5Wt</a></p> <p>— President Obama (@POTUS) <a href="https://twitter.com/POTUS/status/745674203286773761">June 22, 2016</a></p></blockquote>  </div> <p>Democrats gathered in the well of the chamber throughout the day, with members coming in and out to lend their support, calling on Republicans to take action. The group grew to about 100 members at times and Democratic members of the Senate joined in the protest as well, including Senate Minority Leader Harry Reid (Nev.) and Democratic presidential candidate Bernie Sanders (I-Vt.).</p> <p>Pelosi pledged earlier in the day that Democrats would stay on the floor until they get a vote.</p> <p>“We’ll be here as long as it takes, every day,” she said during a news conference on the steps of the Capitol. “This is the moment of truth.”</p> <p>In an appearance on CNN early in the evening, Ryan showed little inclination to meet Democrats’ demands, criticizing them for staging “a publicity stunt” and for calling for votes on “a bill that already died” in the Senate this week.</p> <p>“People have a guaranteed right to Second Amendment rights,” Ryan said. “We’re not going to take away a person’s constitutionally guaranteed rights without due process.”</p> <p>Republicans held a party meeting at 6 p.m. to figure out a way forward.</p> <p>They settled on holding a vote on the investor adviser legislation to highlight how the Democrats’ sit-in wouldn’t prevent the House from doing its scheduled business.</p> <p>“We are going to conduct the will of the people and conduct ourselves as an adult Congress that is actually going to uphold I think the norms, the customs, the rules of the House,” said Rep. Ann Wagner (R-Mo.). “If the minority chooses not to do that, that’s their choice, but we are going to conduct our business, starting tonight.”</p> <p>Republicans also decided to hold the vote on legislation that would provide funding to combat the Zika virus. GOP leaders hope a vote on an important public health issue will further show they won’t be deterred by the sit-in from taking care of legislative business, this time on a major public health issue. Democrats oppose the Republican-crafted Zika spending bill because it includes cuts to other programs, including the Affordable Care Act.</p> <p>[<em><a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/powerpost/wp/2016/06/22/bipartisan-talks-on-zika-virus-break-down-ahead-of-july-4-recess/">Bipartisan talks on Zika virus break down ahead of July 4 recess</a></em>]</p> <p> </p> <div class="inline-content inline-html" readability="23.44262295082"> <blockquote class="twitter-tweet" data-width="500" readability="6.3934426229508"> <p dir="ltr" lang="en">I'm in the House chamber showing solidarity w <a href="https://twitter.com/hashtag/NoBillNoBreak?src=hash">#NoBillNoBreak</a>. Truly amazing moment. Truly amazing last week. <a href="https://t.co/XBSCUkH5BR">pic.twitter.com/XBSCUkH5BR</a></p> <p>— Chris Murphy (@ChrisMurphyCT) <a href="https://twitter.com/ChrisMurphyCT/status/745654824138506241">June 22, 2016</a></p></blockquote>  </div> <p>During the sit-in, the cameras normally used for C-SPAN broadcasts, which are controlled by the House, were turned off, and so were the microphones, leading some members to jokingly argue about who should take the next turn to speak, based on who had the loudest voice. While it’s against House rules to take photos or video on the floor, C-SPAN carried live footage of the sit-in via the live-streams from members’ smartphones.</p> <p>The House cameras were turned on when the House voted at 10 p.m. but were turned off shortly after the votes concluded. Democrats then returned to broadcasting the sit-in via their smartphones.</p> <p>Throughout the day, one by one, Democrats marched to a podium in the well of the House to decry the GOP’s refusal to bring gun-control measures to the floor. They taped rainbow-colored signs that said “disarm hate” to all of the speaking podiums.</p> <p>Apart from the intensity of the speeches, the House floor had the atmosphere of an open-mic night, as about a dozen Democrats sat in the well, several dozen more occupied the seats around them and others trickled in and out.</p> <p>House Democrats frequently congratulated themselves on staging a protest that was largely unprecedented at the Capitol.</p> <p>The idea for the sit-in began with 15 Democratic members who gathered in Lewis’ office Tuesday night, according to Rep. John Yarmuth (D-Ky.). Initially, they had intended to keep it a secret from leaders.</p> <p>But the plan leaked out during the House Democrats’ meeting Wednesday morning, and Pelosi found out that Lewis was formally inviting people to join the protest. Pelosi then endorsed the initiative, Yarmuth said, but there were no rules or strategy beyond that.</p> <p>“We wanted to keep it a little organic,” Yarmuth said. Grinning, he added: “It’s cool.”</p> <p>Lewis and other members likened Wednesday’s protest on the floor to a civil rights movement.</p> <p>“Thank you for getting in trouble! Good trouble,” Lewis told his colleagues Wednesday night, applauding them for their efforts to “protest what is right.”</p> <p>“Sometimes by sitting down, by sitting in, you’re standing up,” he said.</p> <p channel="wp.com" class="interstitial-link"> <i> [<a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/graphics/national/how-lawmakers-responded-to-the-orlando-mass-shooting/">Everything lawmakers said (and didn’t say) after the Orlando mass shooting</a>] </i> </p> <p>Pelosi said members were especially committed to holding the floor because after a series of mass shootings marked by prejudice — the recent attack on a gay nightclub in Orlando and the shooting last year at a predominantly African American church in Charleston, S.C. — and homeland security concerns, members had reached a breaking point.</p> <p>House Democrats are trying to stay “in sync” with the Senate in making their demands, Pelosi explained. That’s why the only two measures they are specifically demanding votes on would prevent suspected terrorists on the government’s watch lists from purchasing firearms and expand background checks. The Senate considered proposals on these two issues earlier this week.</p> <p>“The others, we can’t say 85 to 90 percent of the public support,” Pelosi explained, adding that the chances of passing an assault-weapons ban in this Congress are “hopeless,” despite the many House Democrats who also called for that on the floor Wednesday.</p> <p>“But the other two shouldn’t be, because they are bipartisan,” Pelosi said.</p> <p>On Monday night, the Senate voted down two Democratic-backed versions of the bills House Democrats are clamoring for, as well as two Republican alternatives. Senators have since moved on to a potential compromise that Sen. Susan Collins (R-Maine) drafted with a group of bipartisan senators, that would prevent people on the FBI’s no-fly and terrorist watch lists from purchasing a firearm. They have been promised a vote on the measure, and are trying to build enough bipartisan support to clear a 60-vote threshold.</p> <p>Sen. Martin Heinrich (D-N.M.) argued that the sit-in could help build support for the Collins compromise.</p> <p>“I think it puts more of a spotlight on both House Republicans to schedule something and Senate Republicans to do something,” said Heinrich, one of the key negotiators on Collins’ compromise who also visited the House floor during the sit-in Wednesday. “And I think it also puts pressure on Democrats to embrace something, in a year where this could have just been a political cudgel, to do something and support something, even if that may not be everything they want.”</p> <p>The American Civil Liberties Union came out strongly against the Collins amendment in a letter to senators Wednesday. The group said it relies on “the error-prone and unfair watchlist system,” “fails to provide basic due process safeguards,”  and “effectively creates a new watchlist that is broader than any current list” — a reference to the provision that would alert the FBI if anyone who was on the no-fly or “selectee” lists in the past five years purchases a gun.</p> <p>The gathering of House Democrats on the floor turned somber at times. At one point, Assistant Democratic Leader James Clyburn (S.C.) offered a prayer. At another, members broke into singing the spiritual “We Shall Not Be Moved,” a song associated with the civil rights movement.</p> <p>Midday, about 20 of the members involved in the sit-in left the floor to join Pelosi’s news conference. Rep. Bobby Rush (D-Ill.) spoke about his son, who was fatally shot in 1999. “It’s time to end this chorus of primal screams” from mothers finding out their children have been killed by guns, he said.</p></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNFj5kehMbM8XR8YaclIkGsT8_ZyMw&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779137599935&#038;ei=X4prV7jpONGLhQH06amwDw&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/powerpost/wp/2016/06/22/democrats-stage-protest-on-house-floor-to-force-gun-control-votes/">Source </a>