---
ID: 457
post_title: 'Surge of Americans tests limits of Cuba&#039;s tourism industry'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-01-26 16:44:47
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/surge-of-americans-tests-limits-of-cubas-tourism-industry/
published: true
original_cats:
  - domesticNews
original_title:
  - 'Surge of Americans tests limits of Cuba&#039;s tourism industry'
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/Reuters/domesticNews/~3/XqpFURbkQKo/story01.htm
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/Reuters/domesticNews/~3/XqpFURbkQKo/story01.htm
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="4"><p><span class="articleLocation">HAVANA</span> Cuba's tourism industry is under unprecedented strain and struggling to meet demand with record numbers of visitors arriving a year after detente with the United States renewed interest in the Caribbean island. </p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>Its tropical weather, rich musical traditions, famed cigars  and classic cars were for decades off limits to most Americans under Cold War-era sanctions, but those restrictions are fading.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>Once a rare sight, Americans are now swarming Old Havana's colonial squares and narrow streets along with Europeans and Canadians. </p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>Entrepreneurs and hustlers have responded by upping prices on taxi rides, meals, and trinkets. Cuban women who pose for pictures in colorful dresses and headwraps while chomping cigars are now charging $5 instead of $1.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>Cuba received a record 3.52 million visitors last year, up 17.4 percent from 2014. American visits rose 77 percent to 161,000, not counting hundreds of thousands of Cuban-Americans.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Industry experts worry the island will be unable to absorb an even greater expected surge when scheduled U.S. commercial airline and ferry services are due to start this year. </p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>As it is, foreigners face extreme difficulties booking hotels and rental cars, and those who hoped to discover Cuba before the hordes arrive realize they are too late.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>"Cuba is over the top with tourists right now. I've seen so many Americans, it's not even funny," said Ana Fernandez, 44, of  Nashville, Tennessee.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Gisela Hoiman, 46, a schoolbook editor from Berlin, hoped to see Cuba "before it changes" but was disappointed to find long airport lines, ubiquitous hucksters and masses of tourists. She was stranded in Havana when she was unable to get a spot on the   bus leaving for the eastern city of Santiago."It was too much to handle, too many other tourists. We stood in line and were sent back and forth to different counters," she said from an Old Havana cafe with her large backpack parked on the floor. "I don't think Cuba is prepared."</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>The United States and Cuba agreed in December 2014 to end five decades of animosity and have since restored diplomatic ties, igniting international buzz about Cuba.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>The opening has benefited Cuba's small private sector, which offers restaurants and rooms for rent in family homes. </p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>But the tourism infrastructure, with just 63,000 hotel rooms nationwide, is still largely a function of the state and has languished under decades of U.S. economic sanctions and underdevelopment.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>"From offloading at the airport to restaurant availability, infrastructure is maxed out," said Collin Laverty, founder of Cuba Educational Travel, which organizes tours for legally permitted travel for Americans.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>A select number of foreign-run hotels, such as those of Spain's Melia Hotels International SA (<span id="symbol_MEL.MC_0">MEL.MC</span>), fill up fast, leaving many visitors with little option but tired state-run motels or rooms in private homes.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>Some have been priced out or bumped from hotels, especially in Havana, where high-end U.S. groups reserve blocks months in advance and pay higher prices.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>"It is kind of a slap in the face as it has been the Canadian and European tourists who have helped keep the Cuban economy afloat for the past 25 years," said Keri Montgomery, owner of Vancouver-based Finisterra travel. </p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>The government is seeking more foreign investment and has plans to reach 85,000 hotel rooms nationwide by 2020, but the  pace is slow and development has mostly favored beach destinations rather than Cuba's cultural centers. </p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>Cuban officials did not respond to Reuters requests for comment.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><span id="midArticle_3"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>FORBIDDEN FRUIT</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>American tourism is still banned under the U.S. trade embargo but U.S. citizens and residents are allowed to visit  under 12 categories including for religious, sporting and educational exchanges. </p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>In one of his first moves after rapprochement, Obama made it easier for those 12 categories of travelers to go to Cuba.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>The increased presence of Americans is especially noticeable in Havana, and because there has been little enforcement of the tourism ban, some are also enjoying Cuba's beaches and bars with little effort to disguise their intentions.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>The Treasury Department's Office of Foreign Assets Control has not fined any Americans for visiting Cuba since Obama took office in January 2009, its database shows. </p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Under President George W. Bush, OFAC fined hundreds of individuals for embargo violations, mostly for travel. More than 800 people received penalties including nearly $1.1 million in fines in 2004 and 2005 alone, according to a 2015 report by the Congressional Research Service. </p><span id="midArticle_9"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>California native Tony Pandola, 33, who has been leading Americans around Cuba for three years, said once-intimate experiences are now plagued by crowds. </p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>"On this really beautiful, quiet farm there were six giant tour buses with their diesel engines running and a couple of minivans and taxis all waiting to have the same experience with the tobacco farmer," he said from Viñales, a picturesque valley west of Havana.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>While many budget travelers can usually find accommodations even without booking, some are left stranded.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>"I talked to a cab driver in Viñales who said they were offering tourists to sleep in the back of their car for $10," Pandola said.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>Leonardo Diaz, 34, who has been working in tourism in his hometown of Viñales since he was a teen, said every room was booked in December.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>"A lot of tourists have stayed in the park. That had never been seen before," he said.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>Havana's international airport lacks sufficient infrastructure such as luggage trucks and passenger stairs to handle the influx, causing bottlenecks. </p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>"It's total madness," said Roniel Hernandez, who works at the terminal receiving U.S. flights. "The airport employees are doing everything possible to satisfy visitors, but the equipment is very old and needs to be replaced."    </p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>Retired teacher Joanna Sarff finally came to Cuba after dreaming about it for 50 years, so she refused to let the inconveniences spoil her trip, saying she was more focused on plans to dance on the tables at a Buena Vista Social Club concert than the crowds. </p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>"For me, this is a great way to experience the culture, the people, the food, the mojitos, and the cigars!"</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><span id="midArticle_4"/><p> (Reporting by Jaime Hamre; Additional reporting by Nelson Acosta; Editing by <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=daniel.trotta&amp;">Daniel Trotta</a> and <a href="http://blogs.reuters.com/search/journalist.php?edition=us&amp;n=kieran.murray&amp;">Kieran Murray</a>)</p><span id="midArticle_5"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/Reuters/domesticNews/~3/XqpFURbkQKo/story01.htm">Source </a>