---
ID: 1127
post_title: >
  Still no deal for Britain on EU reforms
  after all-night talks
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-02-19 11:08:05
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/still-no-deal-for-britain-on-eu-reforms-after-all-night-talks/
published: true
original_cats:
  - topNews
original_title:
  - >
    Still no deal for Britain on EU reforms
    after all-night talks
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/t8K2afCaQ34/story01.htm
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/t8K2afCaQ34/story01.htm
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="4"><p><span class="articleLocation">BRUSSELS</span> European leaders argued through the night but reached no deal by Friday morning on a package of reforms that British Prime Minister David Cameron says he needs if he is to campaign to stay in the EU in a referendum.</p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>"I was here till 5 o'clock this morning working through this and we've made some progress but there's still no deal," Cameron said later on Friday morning, going in for more talks. </p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>"As I've said I'll only do a deal if we get what Britain needs. So we are going to get back in there, and we are going to do some more work and I'll do everything I can," he told reporters.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>An agreement that would allow Cameron to return to London and launch a campaign to stay in the EU at a June referendum still seemed feasible by the end of a two-day summit on Friday, but European countries were putting up a hard fight.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>The stakes are high. Cameron says unless he gets the changes he seeks, he will not campaign to remain in the 28-member bloc. British voters are divided but polls show they narrowly favor staying in.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Officials and diplomats were seeking to rework a draft deal before Cameron and other key EU leaders resurfaced for more bilateral talks late in the morning.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>Aides had previously said a proposed deal could served to the leaders over "English breakfast" on Friday. But after the night-long debates, officials spoke instead of "English lunch". </p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>Many leaders said they were felt a historic turning point for European integration.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>No country has ever voted to leave the Union. Britain is the EU's second largest economy and one of its two permanent members on the UN Security Council. Its exit would end the vision of the EU as the natural home for European democracies and reverse the continent's post-World War Two march toward "ever closer union".</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>Britain has always had an ambiguous relationship with the bloc, staying out of two of its most ambitious projects, the Schengen border free zone and the euro common currency.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>The issue has historically divided Cameron's Conservative Party, crippling his predecessor John Major and bringing down his hero Margaret Thatcher. Some Conservatives have criticized the reforms he is negotiating in Brussels, although most senior party figures are likely to follow his lead in campaigning to stay in if he wins the concessions he is seeking.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>Energy Secretary Amber Rudd told the BBC's Today program Cameron had made progress, but a deal was not quite in reach.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>"I don't think we can underestimate how difficult it is to get 27 other member states to agree," she said. </p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>Still, politicians present at the summit center in Brussels predicted an agreement eventually.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>"I simply cannot believe that at some point today Cameron will not get some kind of concession because they know that if Cameron is sent home totally humiliated, Brexit will have got a bit closer," said Nigel Farage of Britain's anti-EU UKIP party.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>Elmar Brok, a German Christian Democrat and member of the European Parliament, said the thorniest issues were always left until the last minute.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>Cameron wants changes to would allow Britain to reduce some benefits payments to migrants from other EU states in a bid to reduce immigration, and safeguards over decisions that affect countries like Britain that do not use the euro.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>Aides voiced frustration at a lack of concessions by partners.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>"While many countries were saying they want to help, they want to make sure they keep Britain in the EU, there wasn't much sign of how they are planning to do that in practice, not showing much room for maneuver," a British official said.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>Britain's mainly euroskeptic press referred to Cameron as begging or pleading, the Daily Mail adding that the prime minister was "rattled".</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>"Shambles as embattled PM's deal is watered down," its front page read.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><span id="midArticle_6"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>FRENCH, BELGIAN, CZECH RESISTANCE</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>French President Francois Hollande and the Belgian and Czech premiers showed the strongest resistance to various points of a draft agreement brokered by summit chairman Donald Tusk.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Paris has pushed for amendments to ensure Britain cannot veto actions by the euro zone countries or give City of London banks competitive advantage through regulation.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>A group of east European states chaired by the Czechs is trying to hold back how far their citizens can be denied welfare benefits in Britain or have family allowances reduced.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>And Belgian Prime Minister Charles Michel is fighting a rearguard action for the federalist cause to limit damage done to European plans for "ever closer union" by giving Britain a guarantee it need never share more sovereignty.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>Italian Prime Minister Matteo Renzi said there had been some backward steps: "I'm always confident but a bit less optimistic than when I arrived," he said.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>How far the reform package will sway voters either way is unclear. Cameron's left-wing Labour opponent, Jeremy Corbyn, was also in Brussels where he echoed Conservative euroskeptics in describing the likely immigration deal as a "theatrical sideshow". But Labour plans to campaign to remain in the bloc.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>Cameron told leaders on Thursday evening: "If we can reach agreement here that is strong enough to persuade the British people to support the UK's membership of the EU then we have an opportunity to settle this issue for a generation."</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><span id="midArticle_15"/><p> (Additional reporting by Gabriela Baczynska, Elizabeth Piper, Alissa de Carbonnel, Francesco Guarascio, Paul Carrel, Andreas Rinke, Tom Koerkemeier, Paul Taylor and Robin Emmott in Brussels, writing by Alastair Macdonald and Philip Blenkinsop)</p><span id="midArticle_16"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/topNews/~3/t8K2afCaQ34/story01.htm">Source </a>