---
ID: 1266
post_title: 'Apple&#039;s fight with U.S. could speed development of government-proof devices'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-02-24 05:29:10
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/apples-fight-with-u-s-could-speed-development-of-government-proof-devices/
published: true
original_cats:
  - technologyNews
original_title:
  - 'Apple&#039;s fight with U.S. could speed development of government-proof devices'
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/technologyNews/~3/as1Ul-ixmNI/story01.htm
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/technologyNews/~3/as1Ul-ixmNI/story01.htm
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="7"><p><span class="articleLocation">SAN FRANCISCO</span> The legal showdown between Apple Inc (<span id="symbol_AAPL.O_0">AAPL.O</span>)and U.S. law enforcement over encryption, no matter the outcome, will likely accelerate tech company efforts to engineer safeguards against government intrusion, tech industry executives say.</p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>Already, an emerging industry is marketing super-secure phones and mobile applications. </p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>An Apple executive said the company will strengthen its encryption if it wins its court battle with the federal government, which last week secured a court order requiring Apple engineers to help extract data from a phone associated with the mass shootings in San Bernardino. </p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>The executive spoke on condition of anonymity. An Apple spokesperson declined to comment publicly.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>If Apple loses the court case, the legal precedent could give the U.S. government broad authority to order companies to assist in breaking into encrypted products. </p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>But even a government victory could have unintended consequences for law enforcement, potentially prompting a wave of investment by U.S. tech companies in security systems that even their own engineers can't access, said Jonathan Zittrain, co-founder of Harvard University's Berkman Center for Internet &amp; Society.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>"A success for the government in this case may further spur Apple and others to develop devices that the makers aren't privileged to crack," he said.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>The fast-growing online storage provider Box has already made it a priority to give customers sole custody of data, said  Joel De la Garza, chief information security officer at the company. The intent is to make it impossible for the company to access its customers' data - even under a government order, he said.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>"Our goal is to achieve a `zero-knowledge' state" for the company, he said, "where our customers have total control over their data."</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>It's unclear whether Apple can - or would even want to - make smartphones the company can't access. Two Apple employees familiar with the company's security strategy said the company had no such plans. </p><span id="midArticle_10"/><span id="midArticle_11"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>SMARTPHONE BLACK OUT</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>One immediate beneficiary of the government's case against Apple is the niche industry, based mostly overseas, that has sprung up to design apps and phones to thwart snooping by governments, business rivals and criminals.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>In the more than two years since former U.S. intelligence contractor Edward Snowden revealed widespread spying via U.S. companies, a handful of companies have released secure phones with names such as BlackPhone, RedPhone or Priv that trumpet security as a prime selling point.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>Phones such as Boeing Co's(<span id="symbol_BA.N_1">BA.N</span>) Black target government customers. Blackberry(<span id="symbol_BB.TO_2">BB.TO</span>) markets the Priv, an Android device, to corporate clients seeking more security.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>Others include Silent Circle, with launched its Blackphone 2 late last year, and Turing Robotic Industries, whose Turing Phone is due in April. Many more apps, such as Signal and Wickr, encrypt calls or texts messages.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>Those businesses could surge if the Apple fight drags on.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>“That’s going to happen,” said Chris Wysopal, cofounder and chief technology officer of software security company Veracode. “People will go out of the country, and there will be a market.”</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>THE SNOWDEN EFFECT</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>U.S. law enforcement officials have long fought for new laws to maintain access to private information that is harder to capture as people move to digital devices from traditional phone lines - which by law must be tappable.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Most recently, the tech industry has fought off numerous efforts to get encryption legislation through Congress, including an attempt last year that died after President Obama declined to support it.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>FBI Director James Comey has been particularly outspoken in arguing that law enforcement efforts are hobbled by encryption, which he calls a safe haven for terrorists.  </p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>The FBI did not respond to a request for comment on this story. Other law enforcement officials have said the tech industry fears are exaggerated, or in Apple's case, even a marketing ploy. </p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Apple, Google, Facebook and other companies also have accelerated efforts to implement encryption in the wake of Snowden's disclosures about U.S. spying - including a program called Prism that culled private data from some of the largest U.S. tech companies. </p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>The revelations prompted companies to fight the perception that they were arms of the government and dented the overseas sales of companies including Cisco (<span id="symbol_CSCO.O_3">CSCO.O</span>)and IBM(<span id="symbol_IBM.N_4">IBM.N</span>), as countries such as China shunned U.S. products.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>Apple's iPhones now have longer passcodes tied to underlying encryption, making them far harder to hack. Facebook's WhatsApp and others have adopted protocols under which they don't have the means to unlock user communications.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>The fight between Apple and the government could give such security efforts a new urgency. It could also undermine trust in automated software updates, which have until now been viewed as one of the best ways to fix security flaws. </p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>Because U.S. prosecutors asked Apple to employ a software update as a means to break into the phone tied to the San Bernardino shootings, users now worry that updates could compromise the security of their devices, said Orion Hindawi, chief executive of security firm Tanium.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>"You are going to see a lot of people who thought auto-update was attractive backing away from that," he said.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><span id="midArticle_15"/><p> (Additional reporting by Jeremy Wagstaff in Singapore; Editing by Jonathan Weber and Brian Thevenot)</p><span id="midArticle_16"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/technologyNews/~3/as1Ul-ixmNI/story01.htm">Source </a>