---
ID: 4818
post_title: 'Britons vote on EU membership after bitter campaign &#8211; Reuters'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-06-23 17:20:09
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/britons-vote-on-eu-membership-after-bitter-campaign-reuters/
published: true
original_cats:
  - Top Stories
original_title:
  - 'Britons vote on EU membership after bitter campaign - Reuters'
original_link:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNG3eEk3yHus9SSHli9yAO0XJohuPw&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779135478777&#038;ei=VBlsV7HgLozPhQH7o4vQDw&#038;url=http://www.reuters.com/article/us-britain-eu-idUSKCN0Z902K'
canonical_url:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNG3eEk3yHus9SSHli9yAO0XJohuPw&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779135478777&#038;ei=VBlsV7HgLozPhQH7o4vQDw&#038;url=http://www.reuters.com/article/us-britain-eu-idUSKCN0Z902K'
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="3"><p><span class="articleLocation">LONDON</span> Britons voted on whether to quit the European Union in a bitterly-contested referendum on Thursday that polarized the nation and could change the face of Europe.</p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>Financial markets, on edge for weeks over the uncertain outcome, rose on the strength of late polls that showed a swing towards staying in, but the bulk of recent polls have suggested the outcome was too close to call.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>If Britain becomes the first state to exit the EU, the so-called Brexit would be the biggest blow to the 28-nation bloc since its foundation. The EU would be stripped of its second-biggest economy and one of its two main military powers, and could face calls for similar votes by anti-EU politicians in other countries.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>If it votes to stay, Britain has been promised a special status exempting it from further political integration but European leaders will still have to address a sharp rise in euroskepticism across the continent. </p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>A Brexit vote would also deal a potentially fatal blow to the career of Prime Minister David Cameron, who called the referendum and campaigned for the country to stay in, against a Leave camp led by rivals from within his own Conservative party.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>After four months of campaigning, polling stations opened at 0600 GMT and were due to close at 2100, with results expected to be announced by the 382 individual local counting areas between around 0100 and 0300 on Friday.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>The Leave campaign says Britain would recover full sovereignty and the economy would benefit from a Brexit. It focused its campaign on warnings that Britain would be unable to control immigration levels as long as it was an EU member.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>Remain says a Brexit would cause financial chaos, impoverish the nation and diminish its influence on world affairs, emphasizing the economic benefits of membership and the risks posed by leaving.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>The campaign was suspended for three days after the killing of pro-EU member of parliament Jo Cox a week ago, which prompted soul-searching about the vicious tone of the debate.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>An Ipsos MORI poll for the Evening Standard newspaper found support for Remain on 52 percent and Leave on 48 percent. A Populus poll put Remain 10 points ahead on 55 percent. Both were conducted on Tuesday and Wednesday.</p><span id="midArticle_10"/><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>CAMERON'S FATE</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>Cameron called the vote under pressure from the rebellious anti-EU wing of his Conservative Party and the surging UK Independence Party (UKIP), hoping to end decades of debate over Britain's ties with Europe.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>Unless Remain wins by a wide margin, Cameron could struggle to repair the rifts in his party and hold on to his job. He has said he would stay in office but in the event of a vote to leave he is likely to face calls to resign.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>The Evening Standard newspaper, citing party sources including ministers, reported that some senior Conservatives from both sides of the divide planned to swiftly back Cameron to stay in office, regardless of the outcome.</p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>"The markets are jittery already. Nobody wants the added uncertainty of a resignation," the newspaper quoted an unnamed minister as saying.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>Cameron voted early and said on Twitter: "Today's the day you can vote for a stronger future - with Britain leading, not leave, Europe. #VoteRemain"</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>His main rival, fellow Conservative former London mayor Boris Johnson, who is the favorite with bookmakers to succeed Cameron, tweeted: "Now is the time to believe in this country and #VoteLeave. Let's make today our Independence Day."</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>If Britons choose to leave, Scottish leader Nicola Sturgeon has suggested Scotland, where sentiment towards the EU is much more positive, may hold another a referendum on leaving the United Kingdom. Scots voted against independence in a plebiscite in 2014.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>Traders, investors and companies were braced for volatility on financial markets whatever the outcome of a vote that both reflected, and has fueled, an anti-establishment mood also seen in the United States and elsewhere in Europe.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>After the Ipsos MORI poll was released, sterling broke above $1.49 for the first time since 2015, although it later fell back and was at $1.48 at 1500 GMT. It had fallen almost to $1.40 last week when polls showed a surge towards Leave. <a href="http://www.reuters.com/finance/currencies/quote?srcCurr=GBP&amp;destCurr=USD">GBP=D4</a> </p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>The likelihood of a Remain vote implied by Betfair betting odds stood at 86 percent, the firm said.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>If Britain votes to leave, finance leaders from the Group of Seven leading economies will issue a statement stressing their readiness to take all necessary steps to calm markets, government officials with direct knowledge of the matter said.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>Britain's AAA credit rating could swiftly be downgraded by Standard &amp; Poor’s if the Brexit camp prevails, S&amp;P chief sovereign ratings officer Moritz Kraemer told German daily newspaper Bild.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><span id="midArticle_9"/><p>OBAMA V TRUMP</p><span id="midArticle_10"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>Britain is deeply divided on EU membership, with older voters favoring exit and younger voters wanting to stay. London and Scotland favor staying in, while much of middle England wants out.</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>The killing of Cox, a 41-year-old mother of two young children, stabbed and shot on a street in her electoral district in northern England, cast a pall over the final days of campaigning.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>The man charged with her murder told a London court on Saturday when asked his name: "Death to traitors, freedom for Britain". He is due to go on trial in November.</p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>Whatever the outcome of the vote, the focus on immigration to Britain, which has increased dramatically in recent years, could worsen frictions in a country where the gap between rich and poor has also been widening.</p><span id="midArticle_14"/><p>The nation's divisions were reflected in newspaper front pages. "Independence Day" was the front page headline of the Sun tabloid, Britain's biggest-selling newspaper, while the Daily Mirror warned "Don't take a leap into the dark".</p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>The issue also dominated news bulletins far beyond Britain. In China, the Global Times, published by the ruling Communist Party's official People's Daily, warned Britain would lose its influence globally if voters backed Brexit.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><p>Foreign leaders, from U.S. President Barack Obama to Chinese leader Xi Jinping, have called on Britain to remain in the EU, a message supported by global financial organizations, many company bosses and central bankers.</p><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>U.S. Republican presidential candidate Donald Trump has voiced support for a Brexit.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>"I don't think anybody should listen to me because I haven't really focused on it very much, but my inclination would be to get out," he told Fox Business on Wednesday. "You know, just go it alone. It's a mess," he said of the EU.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>International banks have warned that the value of the pound could fall dramatically if Britain votes to leave and traders expect markets to be more volatile than at any time since the 2008-09 financial crisis.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>The "Out" campaign says a fall in the value of the pound would boost exports and has found support among some financial specialists and small businesses. It has urged voters to ignore what it calls the "establishment" which it says has the most to lose from Brexit.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><span id="midArticle_6"/><p> (Additional reporting by Sarah Young and Ana Nicolaci da Costa, writing by Estelle Shirbon and Elizabeth Piper; Editing by Sonya Hepinstall and Peter Graff)</p><span id="midArticle_7"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNG3eEk3yHus9SSHli9yAO0XJohuPw&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779135478777&#038;ei=VBlsV7HgLozPhQH7o4vQDw&#038;url=http://www.reuters.com/article/us-britain-eu-idUSKCN0Z902K">Source </a>