---
ID: 2850
post_title: 'Impeachment vote underway in Brazil&#039;s lower house &#8211; Washington Post'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-04-17 22:49:04
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/impeachment-vote-underway-in-brazils-lower-house-washington-post/
published: true
original_cats:
  - Top Stories
original_title:
  - 'Impeachment vote underway in Brazil&#039;s lower house - Washington Post'
original_link:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNFDJ76scT77TtsHTwtFbga_y9Kzrg&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779086036104&#038;ei=3xIUV4jZGYKXwQG__4yYCQ&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/the_americas/brazil-tense-ahead-of-impeachment-vote/2016/04/17/1850c980-0187-11e6-8bb1-f124a43f84dc_story.html'
canonical_url:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNFDJ76scT77TtsHTwtFbga_y9Kzrg&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779086036104&#038;ei=3xIUV4jZGYKXwQG__4yYCQ&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/the_americas/brazil-tense-ahead-of-impeachment-vote/2016/04/17/1850c980-0187-11e6-8bb1-f124a43f84dc_story.html'
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div readability="36">  <p> <span class="pb-caption">On Sunday, April 17, the lower house of congress is voting on the impeachment of President Dilma Rouseff. Anti-impeachment protesters and pro-impeachment supporters have rallied together to express their views. (Monica Akhtar/The Washington Post)</span> </p> </div><div id=""><p> <span class="dateline">BRASILIA —</span> An impeachment showdown in Brazil’s lower house of Congress stretched into Sunday evening, with what appeared to be a critical mass of votes building against President Dilma Rousseff.</p> <p> Rousseff’s opponents said they were confident they had the two-thirds majority needed to impeach her, and appeared to be celebratory mood even before the final tally was complete.</p> <p> “To rescue the hope that was stolen for the Brazilian people, I vote yes,” said Shéridan de Anchieta, one of the many anti-Rousseff lawmakers whose votes brought wild cheering to the chambers. Another legislator fired confetti into the air from a toy pistol at one point after casting his vote to sack the president.</p> <p> The attempt to oust her has badly divided Brazilian society and produced a deep political crisis, a stunning reversal of fortune for a country where everything seemed to be going right a few years earlier when the Brazilian economy was purring. Sunday’s dramatic vote has left Brazilian society more divided than any point in recent memory.</p> <p> Brazilian lawmakers shouted over each other throughout the afternoon and scuffled on the floor of parliament in a rowdy session that unfolded with a circus-like atmosphere on live television. Members of the 513-seat Chamber of Deputies cast their votes one by one, ratcheting up the drama as the evening wore on.</p> <p> Brazil is mired in its worst economic slump since the 1930s. A frightening Zika epidemic continues to spread. And with the opening ceremony of the Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro fewer than four months away, the country’s leaders are consumed with the political crisis and a sweeping <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/the_americas/how-brazil-the-darling-of-the-developing-world-came-undone/2016/04/14/40ee9356-fab4-11e5-813a-90ab563f0dde_story.html?tid=pm_world_pop_b">corruption scandal</a>.</p> <p> Rousseff isn’t accused of stealing, but opponents say she should be impeached because her administration allegedly tried to cover up budget gaps with funds from government banks. She denies any wrongdoing.</p> <p>The specifics of those charges were barely referred to during Sunday’s proceedings – lawmakers voting for impeachment concentrated on attacking corruption and Rousseff’s economic record in 10 second speeches.</p> <p>The sight of so many lawmakers lined up against the president only seemed to reinforce the depths of her unpopularity. Rousseff’s approval rating was just 13 percent in the most recent poll.</p> <p> But many Brazilians unhappy with her are also wary of the lawmakers leading the impeachment push, many of whom are under investigation themselves for corruption, bribery and other misdeeds, including lower house speaker Eduardo Cunha, who orchestrated the vote.</p> <p> Said Communist Party deputy Marcivania Flexa, prior to casting her vote against impeachment: “I have never seen so much hypocrisy.”</p> <p>Brian Winter, a Brazil expert and the vice president of the Americas Society and Council of the Americas, said that while Rousseff’s impeachment looked increasingly certain, it was a process from which few winners would emerge.</p><div class="inline-content inline-video" readability="37">  <p> <span class="pb-caption">Brazil’s president is in trouble. President Dilma Rousseff could be facing an impeachment hearing over the summer, right when the country is hosting the world for the Olympic Games. (Dom Phillips,Nick Miroff,Jason Aldag/The Washington Post)</span> </p> </div> <p>“I worry history may take a dim view of both President Rousseff and this impeachment,” he said. </p> <p>“Brazil’s economy is in its worst recession in at least 80 years in large part because of mistakes Rousseff made. But it’s hard to see how this impeachment — under dubious circumstances, by a Congress just as unpopular as she is — will lead to solutions in the near term,” Winter said.</p> <p>“Brazil’s economy needs strong leadership to pass a new wave of reforms, pull out of this mess and get back on the path it was on last decade when it dazzled the world,” he added.</p> <p>Demonstrators on both sides of Brazil’s divide held rallies and street protests here and across the country, with Rousseff’s backers denouncing the impeachment drive as a thinly disguised coup. Many followed the voting in congress on big screens. </p>  <p> If the impeachment measure passes the lower house, it would require only a simple majority to clear Brazil’s Senate, where Rousseff’s chances for survival are even slimmer. Rousseff would be suspended from the presidency, Vice President <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/worldviews/wp/2016/04/16/does-brazils-vice-president-want-the-top-job-a-bit-too-much-brazilians-ask/">Michel Temer</a> would be sworn in, and senators would have 180 days to conduct formal impeachment hearings before a final vote to determine her fate.</p> <p> More quietly, both sides have been furiously lobbying the few dozen lawmakers who have yet to say how they will vote Sunday, lining up support by dangling high-level cabinet jobs and other perks. It’s precisely this sort of backroom deal-making that has left so many Brazilians angry at their leaders, and a throw-the-bums-out national mood does not bode well for Rousseff’s chances.</p> <p> “We are very certain of victory,” said Antônio Imbassahy, leader of the center-right Brazilian Social Democratic Party. Lawmakers, he said, were “in sync with the feelings of the Brazilian people.”</p> <p channel="wp.com" class="interstitial-link"> <i>[<a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/the_americas/how-brazil-the-darling-of-the-developing-world-came-undone/2016/04/14/40ee9356-fab4-11e5-813a-90ab563f0dde_story.html?tid=pm_world_pop_b">Brazil, the rise and fall of a giant</a>]</i> </p> <p> During the past two days, the president’s supporters and opponents in Congress have taken turns speaking — and shouting — during televised proceedings that frequently erupted in rowdy scenes. Rousseff’s supporters waved signs reading, “There Will Be No Coup,” while their partisans spoke, as the other side hoisted placards demanding an “Impeachment Now.”</p> <p> According to police estimates, the crowd of 40,000 impeachment supporters at a rally outside congress Sunday was more than twice as large as the anti-impeachment group that marched through Brasilia in Rousseff’s defense.</p> <p> Those demonstrators have camped out near a soccer stadium here in the capital, many from activist groups, unions and left-wing movements that belong to Rousseff’s coalition.</p> <p> Maria da Silva, 47, traveled from Maceio, in northeastern Brazil, where she works for the bus drivers’ trade union. She said the lives of tens of millions of poorer Brazilians like her improved immeasurably under Workers’ Party governments.</p> <p> “There is more opportunity for the poor,” she said, adding that she had been able to buy her house through a government financing scheme that built low-cost housing. “To take out [Rousseff] and put the others in will be horrible,” she said. “This is a coup.”</p> <p> It’s an emotionally charged term for many in this country, which was under military rule from 1964 to 1985. But those working to remove Rousseff before the end of her second term, in 2018, say this movement is different and entirely democratic.</p> <p> Pro-impeachment demonstrators are camped here in a city park, many wearing the yellow-and-green jerseys of Brazil’s national soccer team. On the whole, they are more middle class and lighter-skinned, reflecting some of the racial and economic undercurrents in the impeachment battle.</p> <p> Tiago Medina, 28, was in a group that had traveled from Porto Alegre, in Brazil’s more-prosperous south, a bastion of anti-Rousseff sentiment. He said the pro-impeachment side is made up of people “who defend the values of freedom, with less state intervention in the economy.”</p> <p> Medina said their movement is part of the rightward shift across Latin America after more than a decade of dominance by leftist leaders. “We’re standing up for liberal values,” he said.</p> <p channel="wp.com" class="interstitial-link"> <b>Read more:</b> </p> <p channel="wp.com" class="interstitial-link"> <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/worldviews/wp/2016/04/16/how-brazils-impeachment-process-works/">How Brazil’s impeachment process works</a> </p> <p channel="wp.com" class="interstitial-link"> <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/the_americas/how-brazil-the-darling-of-the-developing-world-came-undone/2016/04/14/40ee9356-fab4-11e5-813a-90ab563f0dde_story.html?tid=pm_pop_b">How the darling of the developing world came undone</a> </p> <p channel="wp.com" class="interstitial-link"> <a href="https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/world/wp/2016/03/25/kim-conley-zika-virus-rio-olympics/?tid=a_inl">Zika’s terrifying path</a> </p> <p channel="wp.com" class="interstitial-link"> <a href="http://www.washingtonpost.com/world">Today's coverage from Post correspondents around the world</a> </p> </div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNFDJ76scT77TtsHTwtFbga_y9Kzrg&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779086036104&#038;ei=3xIUV4jZGYKXwQG__4yYCQ&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/world/the_americas/brazil-tense-ahead-of-impeachment-vote/2016/04/17/1850c980-0187-11e6-8bb1-f124a43f84dc_story.html">Source </a>