---
ID: 3113
post_title: 'Apple&#039;s nine-year iPhone juggernaut stops with first sales decline'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-04-27 04:54:05
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/apples-nine-year-iphone-juggernaut-stops-with-first-sales-decline/
published: true
original_cats:
  - technologyNews
original_title:
  - 'Apple&#039;s nine-year iPhone juggernaut stops with first sales decline'
original_link:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/technologyNews/~3/dlJai2wBzbQ/us-apple-results-idUSKCN0XN22I
canonical_url:
  - >
    http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/technologyNews/~3/dlJai2wBzbQ/us-apple-results-idUSKCN0XN22I
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id="articleText">
<span id="midArticle_start"/>

<span id="midArticle_0"/><span class="focusParagraph" readability="4"><p><span class="articleLocatio&lt;/span&gt;n">Apple Inc (<span id="symbol_AAPL.O_0">AAPL.O</span>) on Tuesday posted its first-ever decline in iPhone sales and its first revenue drop in 13 years as the company credited with inventing the smartphone struggles with an increasingly saturated market.</span></p></span><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>The company's sales dropped by more than a quarter in China, its most important market after the United States, and it also forecast another disappointing quarter for global revenues.</p><span id="midArticle_2"/><p>Its shares fell about 8 percent, dropping below $100 for the first time since February. A hike in Apple's share buyback and  dividend as well as bumper revenue from services failed to mollify investors.</p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>Apple's results followed disappointing quarterly reports from Microsoft Corp(<span id="symbol_MSFT.O_1">MSFT.O</span>) and Google-owner Alphabet Inc (<span id="symbol_GOOGL.O_2">GOOGL.O</span>), and microblog Twitter (<span id="symbol_TWTR.N_3">TWTR.N</span>) also on Tuesday reported results that missed expectations.</p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>Apple said it sold 51.2 million iPhones in its second fiscal quarter, down from 61.2 million in the same quarter a year ago but above analysts' estimates of about 50 million devices. </p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>While Apple executives had predicted iPhone sales would decline this quarter, they must reassure investors that the drop  represents a momentary roadblock, rather than a permanent shift for the product that fueled its meteoric rise.</p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>After years of blockbuster sales, many investors fear the iPhone has reached saturation, spelling the end for Apple's exponential growth.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>"Apple needs to come up with a radical new innovation or product rather than just the current incremental improvements to existing products. This is the only way in which it will reinvigorate sales growth," said Neil Saunders, chief executive of research firm Conlumino.</p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>Apple Chief Financial Officer Luca Maestri told Reuters that the success of the iPhone 6 a year earlier had set a difficult bar to beat in the second quarter. "The iPhone 6 is an anomaly," he said. </p><span id="midArticle_9"/>
        
        <span class="first-article-divide"/><p>But Chief Executive Tim Cook told analysts that the smartphone market was not growing, reinforcing wider concerns of saturation. </p><span id="midArticle_10"/><p>Cook also conceded that the iPhone 6S was driving customers to replace phones at a much lower rate than the 6. "I don't mean just a hair lower; it's a lot lower," he said. "If we'd had the same rate on 6S as 6, it would be time for a huge party."</p><span id="midArticle_11"/><p>He pointed to the services division, which includes Apple Music and the App Store, as a bright spot. Its revenue grew 20 percent to $6 billion and surpassed iMac and iPad sales.</p><span id="midArticle_12"/><p>Cook also hinted that Apple had more gadgets to come.     "The future of Apple is very bright," he said. "Our product pipeline has amazing innovations in store." </p><span id="midArticle_13"/><p>Earnings of $1.90 per share fell short of the average analyst estimate of $2 per share, according to Thomson Reuters I/B/E/S. Revenue of $50.56 billion missed expectations of $51.97 billion. </p><span id="midArticle_14"/>
        
        <span class="second-article-divide"/><p>Apple forecast third-quarter revenue of $41 billion to $43 billion, short of the Wall Street consensus of $47.3 billion. </p><span id="midArticle_15"/><p>Apple also said it was raising its capital return program by $50 billion through a $35 billion increase in its share buyback authorization and a 10 percent rise in the quarterly dividend.</p><span id="midArticle_0"/><span id="midArticle_1"/><p>iPHONE SE DEMAND STRONG</p><span id="midArticle_2"/>
        
        <span class="third-article-divide"/><p>In March, Apple released the iPhone SE, a smaller, 4-inch-screen phone featuring much of the company's latest technology. Although sales of the phone were not captured in the second quarter, the device is off to a strong start, particularly in emerging markets, Maestri said. </p><span id="midArticle_3"/><p>"The situation right now around the world is that we are supply-constrained," he said. "The demand has been very, very strong." </p><span id="midArticle_4"/><p>Although Apple's revenue in Greater China fell 26 percent from the year-ago quarter, Maestri stressed that the company was "extremely optimistic" about China. "We continue to make a lot of investment there," he said.</p><span id="midArticle_5"/><p>Cook said that mainland China sales were down only 7 percent in constant currency, attributing much of the Greater China drop to Hong Kong, where strength in the local dollar, which is pegged to U.S. currency, deterred tourist shopping. </p><span id="midArticle_6"/><p>The company did not comment on prospects for its iBooks Stores and iTunes Movie service, which were shut down last week in China.</p><span id="midArticle_7"/><p>The drop in after-hours shares wipes out roughly $46 billion in market capitalization, roughly the value of heavy equipment maker Caterpillar Inc (<span id="symbol_CAT.N_4">CAT.N</span>). </p><span id="midArticle_8"/><p>In reaction to Apple's results, shares of its suppliers Skyworks Solutions (<span id="symbol_SWKS.O_5">SWKS.O</span>), Qorvo (<span id="symbol_QRVO.O_6">QRVO.O</span>), Broadcom (<span id="symbol_AVGO.O_7">AVGO.O</span>) and NXP Semiconductors (<span id="symbol_NXPI.O_8">NXPI.O</span>) all fell 2 percent or more on Tuesday.</p><span id="midArticle_9"/><span id="midArticle_10"/><p> (Reporting by Julia Love in San Francisco and Anya George Tharakan in Bengaluru; additional reporting by Noel Randewich and Rodrigo Campos; additional writing by Peter Henderson; Editing by Cynthia Osterman)</p><span id="midArticle_11"/></div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://feeds.reuters.com/~r/reuters/technologyNews/~3/dlJai2wBzbQ/us-apple-results-idUSKCN0XN22I">Source </a>