---
ID: 3573
post_title: 'The Latest: Governor: Justice prevailed in ex-leader&#039;s case &#8211; Washington Post'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-05-12 18:43:07
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/the-latest-governor-justice-prevailed-in-ex-leaders-case-washington-post/
published: true
original_cats:
  - Top Stories
original_title:
  - 'The Latest: Governor: Justice prevailed in ex-leader&#039;s case - Washington Post'
original_link:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNEJJ2iHonlHiy4hWz4zbaIhpqX3Qw&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779104821800&#038;ei=us40V8jkKuarwAGD3o7wDA&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/the-latest-sentencing-hearing-begins-for-ex-ny-senate-head/2016/05/12/2ca4e526-1850-11e6-971a-dadf9ab18869_story.html'
canonical_url:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNEJJ2iHonlHiy4hWz4zbaIhpqX3Qw&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779104821800&#038;ei=us40V8jkKuarwAGD3o7wDA&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/the-latest-sentencing-hearing-begins-for-ex-ny-senate-head/2016/05/12/2ca4e526-1850-11e6-971a-dadf9ab18869_story.html'
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div id=""><p>NEW YORK — The Latest on the sentencing of former Senate leader Dean Skelos and his son (all times local):</p> <p>2:10 p.m.</p> <p>New York Gov. Andrew Cuomo says “justice prevailed” after the state’s former Senate majority leader and his son were sentenced to prison for corruption.</p> <p>The Democratic governor issued a statement after Manhattan federal Judge Kimba Wood sentenced Long Island Republican Dean Skelos (SKEH’-lohs) to five years in prison Thursday. She also sentenced his son, Adam, to 6 ½ years in prison. Both men were convicted last year of conspiracy, extortion and bribery.</p> <p>Prosecutors say the men used Dean Skelos’ clout to force companies to funnel over $300,000 to Adam Skelos.</p> <p>The father and son did not comment as they left court.</p> <p>The judge says the men caused “immeasurable damage” to New Yorkers’ confident in the integrity of government.</p> <p>___</p> <p>12:45 p.m.</p> <p>The son of former New York Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos has been sentenced to 6 1/2 years in prison for corruption.</p> <p>Judge Kimba Wood announced the sentence for 33-year-old Adam Skelos on Thursday. Earlier in the day, she sentenced his father, Long Island Republican Dean Skelos, to five years in prison. Both were convicted last year at trial of bribery, extortion and conspiracy.</p> <p>The prison terms were considerably less than the amount of time recommended by federal sentencing guidelines.</p> <p>Before the judge announced the sentence for Adam Skelos, she said it sometimes appeared as if he had “no moral compass” as he worked with his father to pressure companies to give him hundreds of thousands of dollars.</p> <p>___</p> <p>12:30 p.m.</p> <p>A federal judge has told former New York Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos (SKEH’-lohs) that he caused “immeasurable damage” to New Yorkers’ confidence in the integrity of government with his crimes.</p> <p>Manhattan Judge Kimba Wood sentenced Skelos on Thursday to five years in prison. She says she wants to send a message to other politicians that they will suffer physically and financially if they commit crimes. She also imposed a $500,000 fine and ordered him to forfeit over $300,000.</p> <p>His son, Adam, awaits sentencing later Thursday.</p> <p>A jury convicted the Long Island Republican and his son last year on extortion and other charges in a scheme to pressure businesses to provide the son with roughly $300,000.</p> <p>Both father and son apologized Thursday.</p> <p>___</p> <p>Noon</p> <p>Former New York Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos (SKEH’-lohs) has been sentenced to five years in prison on charges he used his office to extort money and a job for his son.</p> <p>He’s the second New York powerbroker to be sentenced for corruption this month.</p> <p>His son, Adam, also awaits sentencing Thursday. It comes a week after former Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver got a 12-year term in another bribery case.</p> <p>A jury convicted the father and son last year on extortion and other charges. They were accused of using the Long Island Republican’s position to pressure businesses to provide the son with roughly $300,000 through consulting work and a no-show job.</p> <p>Both father and son apologized Thursday. Adam Skelos choked up when saying he loved his father more than anyone.</p> <p>___</p> <p>11:45 a.m.</p> <p>A prosecutor has addressed the judge in the sentencing of former Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos (SKEH’-lohs) and his son, calling it a sad day for the state of New York.</p> <p>Assistant U.S. Attorney Jason Masimore said at the Thursday sentencing that the people of the state deserve better.</p> <p>He says it doesn’t matter that the father and son were blinded by their love for each other when they committed their crimes. He says that would be like robbing a bank and then saying it was done for the benefit of family.</p> <p>Judge Kimba Wood is preparing to sentence the 68-year-old Long Island Republican and his 33-year-old son, Adam. They were convicted last year of extortion, bribery and conspiracy.</p> <p>___</p> <p>11:30 a.m.</p> <p>Former New York Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos (SKEH’-lohs) and his son, Adam, have apologized while speaking to a judge before sentencing in their corruption case.</p> <p>Dean Skelos told Judge Kimba Wood on Thursday that the bribery, extortion and conspiracy convictions last year had destroyed his reputation. He asked that she be lenient to his son.</p> <p>The son said he was deeply embarrassed by his actions and regretted what he had done. He choked up as he said he loved his father more than anyone in the world. As Adam Skelos spoke from a lectern, his father could be seen wiping his eyes from his seat.</p> <p>Prosecutors say the Long Island Republican pressured companies to provide about $300,000 to his son.</p> <p>___</p> <p>11:05 a.m.</p> <p>The close relationship between ex-New York Senate Majority Leader Dean Skelos (SKEH’-lohs) and his son, Adam, have become a central point of contention at their sentencing hearing.</p> <p>Judge Kimba Wood on Thursday interrupted defense attorney G. Robert Gage to ask about it. She asked why the father did not simply ask his many friends to help his son get a job rather than extort companies.</p> <p>The lawyer says he wishes he had. As he spoke, Dean Skelos and his son sat side by side, both with their hands folded before them.</p> <p>They were convicted last year of bribery, extortion and conspiracy.</p> <p>Prosecutors say the Long Island Republican pressured companies to provide about $300,000 to his son. Gage says his client stuck by his son, perhaps to a fault.</p> <p>___</p> <p>10:35 a.m.</p> <p>A sentencing hearing has begun for former New York Senate leader Dean Skelos and his son, Adam, who were convicted of corruption charges.</p> <p>Judge Kimba Wood says she plans to sentence the father before the son Thursday.</p> <p>The sentencing of the 68-year-old Long Island Republican comes little more than a week after the sentencing of his Democratic counterpart, ex-New York Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver. Silver received 12 years in prison in a bribery case.</p> <p>Dean Skelos and his son were convicted last year of bribery, extortion and conspiracy. Prosecutors say Dean Skelos used his powerful position to pressure companies into providing about $300,000 to his son.</p> <p>Defense attorneys argued that the evidence simply showed that Dean Skelos was a devoted father looking out for his son.</p> <p>___</p> <p>12:20 a.m.</p> <p>Another disgraced New York powerbroker is facing sentencing in a political corruption case.</p> <p>Former Senate majority leader Dean Skelos and his son, Adam, are scheduled to appear in federal court in Manhattan on Thursday morning. Their sentencing comes less than two weeks after former Democratic Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver got a 12-year prison term in a separate bribery case.</p> <p>A jury convicted the father and son last year on extortion and other charges accusing them of using the Long Island Republican’s position to pressure businesses to provide the son with roughly $300,000 through consulting work, a no-show job and a payment of $20,000.</p> <p>The government has told a judge each man deserves a stiff sentence. The defendants have asked for probation and community service.</p> <p>Copyright 2016 The Associated Press. All rights reserved. This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten or redistributed.</p> </div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNEJJ2iHonlHiy4hWz4zbaIhpqX3Qw&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779104821800&#038;ei=us40V8jkKuarwAGD3o7wDA&#038;url=https://www.washingtonpost.com/national/the-latest-sentencing-hearing-begins-for-ex-ny-senate-head/2016/05/12/2ca4e526-1850-11e6-971a-dadf9ab18869_story.html">Source </a>