---
ID: 1825
post_title: 'Turkey Vows Swift Retaliation After Bomb Kills 34 in Capital &#8211; Bloomberg'
author: Staff Writer
post_date: 2016-03-14 08:10:08
post_excerpt: ""
layout: post
permalink: >
  https://www.whenitson.com/turkey-vows-swift-retaliation-after-bomb-kills-34-in-capital-bloomberg/
published: true
original_cats:
  - Top Stories
original_title:
  - 'Turkey Vows Swift Retaliation After Bomb Kills 34 in Capital - Bloomberg'
original_link:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNF7px7Nghy26LmR1R8LU5_HM_PA9Q&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779062654666&#038;ei=3nHmVrjvNpeRhAHruaLQCQ&#038;url=http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-03-14/turkey-vows-swift-retaliation-after-bomb-kills-34-in-capital'
canonical_url:
  - 'http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNF7px7Nghy26LmR1R8LU5_HM_PA9Q&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779062654666&#038;ei=3nHmVrjvNpeRhAHruaLQCQ&#038;url=http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-03-14/turkey-vows-swift-retaliation-after-bomb-kills-34-in-capital'
---
 [ad_1]
<br><div readability="97.500927070457"> <p>Turkish officials vowed to retaliate swiftly against militants after a car bomb attack killed at least 34 people in the capital Ankara on Sunday, with President Recep Tayyip Erdogan pledging to bring terrorism “to its knees.”</p><p>Prime Minister Ahmet Davutoglu, whose office is meters away from the blast site, said the government was close to identifying the group responsible for the attack, promising “the heaviest punishment” for perpetrators.</p><p>The explosion was the third to hit the capital in five months, highlighting the government’s struggle to prevent regional instability and violence in the southeast from spilling into key cities. The attack came less than a month after another car-bomb in Ankara killed at least 30, an attack claimed by separatist Kurdish group known as TAK. Islamic State militants hit the city’s main train station in October, killing more than 100 civilians who had gathered for a peace rally.</p><h3>‘Regional Conflict’</h3><figure class="inline-image inline-media center " readability="-23">  <figcaption class="inline-media__info" readability="-21"><p>A police officer looks on as a body bag is carried at the scene of a blast in Ankara on Sunday.</p>  <p>Photographer: Adem Altan/AFP via Getty Images</p>  </figcaption></figure><p>“In 2016, with a combination of regional conflict as well as threats from Islamic State and Kurdish militants in the southeast, Turkey is increasingly seen as part of the Middle East rather than an island of security outside of it,” Jonathan Friedman, an assistant director at global risk consultant Stroz Friedberg, said.</p><p>The lira weakened 0.4 percent to 2.8798 per dollar against the dollar at 8:25 a.m. in Istanbul.</p><p>Erdogan and Davutoglu both blamed attacks on instability in the region which they said made Turkey the victim of attacks by separate “terrorist” groups.</p><p>Preliminary evidence from the blast site and other intelligence suggested role of a certain armed group whose name would be announced once the investigation is concluded, Davutoglu said shortly after the explosion.</p><p>TAK, blamed for the February 17 car bomb on a bus carrying military personnel, has pledged to stage more attacks across Turkey in response to the government’s war against the Kurdish PKK group. Turkey, the U.S. and the European Union classify the PKK as a terrorist organization.</p><h3>U.S. Warning</h3><p>The U.S. Embassy in Ankara two days ago warned of a terrorist plot against Turkish government buildings and lodgings in the Bahcelievler area of Ankara, citing what it described as specific information.</p><p>The U.S. “strongly” condemned the attack on Sunday, saying it remains committed to “combating the shared threat of terrorism” with NATO ally Turkey, according to an e-mailed statement by the State Department.</p><p>Sunday’s blast occurred near a bus station about 200 meters (650 feet) from Davutoglu’s office at around 7 p.m. local time. Health Minister Mehmet Muezzinoglu said at least 125 people were injured, with 19 in serious condition. Police immediately cordoned off the area near Ankara’s Guvenpark as authorities investigated.</p><p>The blast blew out the windows of cars and buildings hundreds of meters from the site, where bodies were clearly visible shortly after the attack. Davutoglu summoned top security and intelligence officials for a meeting in Ankara following the explosion.</p> </div>
<br>[ad_2]
<br><a href="http://news.google.com/news/url?sa=t&#038;fd=R&#038;ct2=us&#038;usg=AFQjCNF7px7Nghy26LmR1R8LU5_HM_PA9Q&#038;clid=c3a7d30bb8a4878e06b80cf16b898331&#038;cid=52779062654666&#038;ei=3nHmVrjvNpeRhAHruaLQCQ&#038;url=http://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2016-03-14/turkey-vows-swift-retaliation-after-bomb-kills-34-in-capital">Source </a>